docs/pages/router/navigating-pages.mdx, before:

---
title: Navigate between pages
description: Learn how to create links to move between pages.
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

Expo Router uses "links" to move between pages in the app. This is conceptually similar to how the web works with `<a>` tags and the `href` attribute.

<FileTree files={['app/index.tsx', 'app/about.tsx', 'app/user/[id].tsx']} />

In the following example, there are two [`Link`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#link) components which navigate to different routes.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
/* @info Import the <strong>Link</strong> React component from <strong>expo-router</strong> */
import { Link } from 'expo-router';
/* @end */

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Tapping this will link to the <strong>about</strong> page */
      <Link href="/about">About</Link>
      /* @end */
      {/* ...other links */}
      /* @info Tapping this will navigate to the dynamic route <strong>user/[id]</strong> where <strong>id=bacon</strong> */
      <Link href="/user/bacon">View user</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Buttons

The Link component wraps the children in a `<Text>` component by default, this is useful for accessibility but not always desired. You can customize the component by passing the [`asChild` prop](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#aschild), which will forward all props to the first child of the `Link` component. The child component must support the `onPress` and `onClick` props, `href` and `role` will also be passed down.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx
import { Pressable, Text } from 'react-native';
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    /* @info The <strong>onPress</strong> event that navigates to <strong>/other</strong> will be passed to <strong>Pressable</strong> */
    <Link href="/other" asChild>
    /* @end */
      <Pressable>
        <Text>Home</Text>
      </Pressable>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

## Understanding native navigation

> Expo Router v4 changed `navigate` to be an alias for `push`. To retain the old behavior, use [`dismissTo`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismissTo).

Expo Router uses a stack-based navigation model, where each new route you navigate to is added to a stack.

For example, navigating from the `/feed` route to the `/profile` route results in the stack being `['/feed', '/profile']`. If you then navigate to `/settings`, the stack becomes `['/feed', '/profile', '/settings']`. While this may resemble traditional web navigation, a key distinction is that screens can have multiple child stacks, each independently controlled. This is known as parallel routing.

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/_layout.tsx', '<Tabs />'],
    ['app/(fruit)/_layout.tsx', '<Stack />'],
    ['app/(vegetable)/_layout.tsx', '<Stack />'],
    'app/(fruit)/apple.tsx',
    'app/(fruit)/orange.tsx',
    'app/(vegetable)/carrot.tsx',
    'app/(vegetable)/potato.tsx',
  ]}
/>

In the example above, **app/\_layout** introduces a `<Tabs />` navigator, while the other two layout files render a `<Stack />`. Navigating through each page would result in a history like `[['/apple', '/orange'], ['/carrot', '/potato']]`. Notice that instead of a single stack, there's a parent stack containing two child stacks.

While advancing in a stack is straightforward, moving backward can be more complex due to the non-linear history.

Consider a common mobile experience: when you open an app from a link and press back, you might see unfamiliar screens before exiting the app. This demonstrates how stacks maintain their own history using anchor routes (also called initial routes). This is why `back()` is sometimes called a "pop" (the reverse of "push") or "unwinding the stack".

To handle backwards navigation, Expo Router offers multiple functions: [`back`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#router) moves you backward in the stack's history. At the same time, [`dismiss`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismiss) only goes back within the current stack.

The [`dismissTo`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismissto) function is unique—it can move you forward or backward. Calling `dismissTo` for a previously visited route will dismiss screens until that route is reached. If the route isn't in the history, it will push forward to that route.

Additionally, the [`replace`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#replace) method allows you to replace the current route in the stack with a new one, without adding to the stack.

To navigate, you can provide a full path (`/profile/settings`), a relative path (`../settings`), or by passing an object (`{ pathname: 'profile', params: { id: '123' } }`).

## Relative navigation

A relative URL is a URL prefix with `./`, such as `./article`, or `./article/`. Relative URLs are resolved relative to the current rendered screen.

The URL of the current screen is a document URL (a URL without a trailing slash), so relative URLs will be resolved relative to the directory. This can be confusing when the current screen is rendered by an `index` file as the relative URL is resolved from the URL's directory, not the file system. By using the `relativeToDirectory` option, Expo Router will instead treat the current URL as a directory URL.

| Href         | Current URL | `relativeToDirectory` | Result              |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------------------- | ------------------- |
| `./article`  | `/route/v1` |                       | `/route/article`    |
| `./article`  | `/route/v1` | `true`                | `/route/v1/article` |
| `../article` | `/route/v1` |                       | `/article`          |
| `../article` | `/route/v1` | `true`                | `/route/article`    |

```ts
// Using `relativeToDirectory` with Link
<Link href="./article" relativeToDirectory>Go to article</Link>

// Using `relativeToDirectory` with the imperative API
router.push("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
router.navigate("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
router.replace("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
```

> **info** Relative URLs without a `./` prefix, such as `article`, are not supported.

## Linking to dynamic routes

Dynamic routes and query parameters can be provided statically or with the convenience **Href** object.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
/* @info Import the <strong>Link</strong> React component from <strong>expo-router</strong> */
import { Link } from 'expo-router';
/* @end */
import { View } from 'react-native';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Link
        href={{
          /* @info Navigate to <strong>/user/bacon</strong> */
          pathname: '/user/[id]',
          params: { id: 'bacon' }
          /* @end */
        }}>
          View user
        </Link>
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Pushing screens

By default, links `navigate` to the nearest route in the navigation stack, either by pushing a new route or unwinding to an existing route. You can use the `push` prop to always push the route onto the stack.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Navigate to <strong>/feed</strong> and always add it to the stack. */
      <Link push href="/feed">Login</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Replacing screens

By default, links "push" routes onto the navigation stack. It follows the same rules as [`navigation.navigate()`](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/navigating/#navigate-to-a-route-multiple-times). This means that the previous screen will be available when the user navigates back. You can use the `replace` prop to replace the current screen instead of pushing a new one.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Navigate to <strong>/feed</strong> without adding it to the stack. */
      <Link replace href="/feed">Login</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

Use `router.replace()` to replace the current screen imperatively.

Native navigation does not always support `replace`. For example on X, you wouldn't be able to "replace" directly from a profile to a tweet, this is because the UI requires a back button to return to the feed or other top-level tab screen. In this case, replace would switch to the feed tab, and push the tweet route on top of it, or if you were on a different tweet inside the feed tab, it would replace the current tweet with the new tweet. This exact behavior can be obtained in Expo Router by using [`unstable_settings`](/router/advanced/router-settings).

## Imperative navigation

You can also navigate imperatively using the `router` object. This is useful when you need to perform a navigation action outside a React component, such as in an event handler or a utility function.

```tsx
import { router } from 'expo-router';

export function logout() {
  /* @info Navigate to <strong>/login</strong> */
  router.replace('/login');
  /* @end */
}
```

The `router` object is immutable and contains multiple methods to navigate. See [`Router`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#router) for more information about the available methods.

## Autocomplete

Expo Router can automatically generate static TypeScript types for all routes in your app. This allows you to use autocomplete for `href`s and get warnings when invalid links are used. See [Statically Typed Routes](/router/reference/typed-routes) for more information.

## Web behavior

Expo Router supports the standard `<a>` element when running on web, however this will perform a full-page server-navigation. This is slower and doesn't take full advantage of React. Instead, the Expo Router `Link` component will perform client-side navigation, which will preserve the state of the website and navigate faster.

The web-only attributes `target`, `rel`, and `download` are also supported. These will be passed to the `<a>` element when running on web.

Client-side navigation works with both single-page apps, and [static rendering](/router/reference/static-rendering).

## Usage in simulators

See [Test the deep link](/linking/into-your-app/#test-the-deep-link) to learn how to emulate deep links in Android Emulators and iOS Simulators.

Commit message:

[router] add option to navigate to a route as a non-initial screen

docs/pages/router/navigating-pages.mdx, after:

---
title: Navigate between pages
description: Learn how to create links to move between pages.
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

Expo Router uses "links" to move between pages in the app. This is conceptually similar to how the web works with `<a>` tags and the `href` attribute.

<FileTree files={['app/index.tsx', 'app/about.tsx', 'app/user/[id].tsx']} />

In the following example, there are two [`Link`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#link) components which navigate to different routes.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
/* @info Import the <strong>Link</strong> React component from <strong>expo-router</strong> */
import { Link } from 'expo-router';
/* @end */

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Tapping this will link to the <strong>about</strong> page */
      <Link href="/about">About</Link>
      /* @end */
      {/* ...other links */}
      /* @info Tapping this will navigate to the dynamic route <strong>user/[id]</strong> where <strong>id=bacon</strong> */
      <Link href="/user/bacon">View user</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Buttons

The Link component wraps the children in a `<Text>` component by default, this is useful for accessibility but not always desired. You can customize the component by passing the [`asChild` prop](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#aschild), which will forward all props to the first child of the `Link` component. The child component must support the `onPress` and `onClick` props, `href` and `role` will also be passed down.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx
import { Pressable, Text } from 'react-native';
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    /* @info The <strong>onPress</strong> event that navigates to <strong>/other</strong> will be passed to <strong>Pressable</strong> */
    <Link href="/other" asChild>
    /* @end */
      <Pressable>
        <Text>Home</Text>
      </Pressable>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

## Understanding native navigation

> Expo Router v4 changed `navigate` to be an alias for `push`. To retain the old behavior, use [`dismissTo`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismissTo).

Expo Router uses a stack-based navigation model, where each new route you navigate to is added to a stack.

For example, navigating from the `/feed` route to the `/profile` route results in the stack being `['/feed', '/profile']`. If you then navigate to `/settings`, the stack becomes `['/feed', '/profile', '/settings']`. While this may resemble traditional web navigation, a key distinction is that screens can have multiple child stacks, each independently controlled. This is known as parallel routing.

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/_layout.tsx', '<Tabs />'],
    ['app/(fruit)/_layout.tsx', '<Stack />'],
    ['app/(vegetable)/_layout.tsx', '<Stack />'],
    'app/(fruit)/apple.tsx',
    'app/(fruit)/orange.tsx',
    'app/(vegetable)/carrot.tsx',
    'app/(vegetable)/potato.tsx',
  ]}
/>

In the example above, **app/\_layout** introduces a `<Tabs />` navigator, while the other two layout files render a `<Stack />`. Navigating through each page would result in a history like `[['/apple', '/orange'], ['/carrot', '/potato']]`. Notice that instead of a single stack, there's a parent stack containing two child stacks.

While advancing in a stack is straightforward, moving backward can be more complex due to the non-linear history.

Consider a common mobile experience: when you open an app from a link and press back, you might see unfamiliar screens before exiting the app. This demonstrates how stacks maintain their own history using anchor routes (also called initial routes). This is why `back()` is sometimes called a "pop" (the reverse of "push") or "unwinding the stack".

To handle backwards navigation, Expo Router offers multiple functions: [`back`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#router) moves you backward in the stack's history. At the same time, [`dismiss`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismiss) only goes back within the current stack.

The [`dismissTo`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#dismissto) function is unique—it can move you forward or backward. Calling `dismissTo` for a previously visited route will dismiss screens until that route is reached. If the route isn't in the history, it will push forward to that route.

Additionally, the [`replace`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#replace) method allows you to replace the current route in the stack with a new one, without adding to the stack.

To navigate, you can provide a full path (`/profile/settings`), a relative path (`../settings`), or by passing an object (`{ pathname: 'profile', params: { id: '123' } }`).

## Relative navigation

A relative URL is a URL prefix with `./`, such as `./article`, or `./article/`. Relative URLs are resolved relative to the current rendered screen.

The URL of the current screen is a document URL (a URL without a trailing slash), so relative URLs will be resolved relative to the directory. This can be confusing when the current screen is rendered by an `index` file as the relative URL is resolved from the URL's directory, not the file system. By using the `relativeToDirectory` option, Expo Router will instead treat the current URL as a directory URL.

| Href         | Current URL | `relativeToDirectory` | Result              |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------------------- | ------------------- |
| `./article`  | `/route/v1` |                       | `/route/article`    |
| `./article`  | `/route/v1` | `true`                | `/route/v1/article` |
| `../article` | `/route/v1` |                       | `/article`          |
| `../article` | `/route/v1` | `true`                | `/route/article`    |

```ts
// Using `relativeToDirectory` with Link
<Link href="./article" relativeToDirectory>Go to article</Link>

// Using `relativeToDirectory` with the imperative API
router.push("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
router.navigate("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
router.replace("./article", { relativeToDirectory: true })
```

> **info** Relative URLs without a `./` prefix, such as `article`, are not supported.

## Linking to dynamic routes

Dynamic routes and query parameters can be provided statically or with the convenience **Href** object.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
/* @info Import the <strong>Link</strong> React component from <strong>expo-router</strong> */
import { Link } from 'expo-router';
/* @end */
import { View } from 'react-native';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Link
        href={{
          /* @info Navigate to <strong>/user/bacon</strong> */
          pathname: '/user/[id]',
          params: { id: 'bacon' }
          /* @end */
        }}>
          View user
        </Link>
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Pushing screens

By default, links `navigate` to the nearest route in the navigation stack, either by pushing a new route or unwinding to an existing route. You can use the `push` prop to always push the route onto the stack.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Navigate to <strong>/feed</strong> and always add it to the stack. */
      <Link push href="/feed">Login</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Replacing screens

By default, links "push" routes onto the navigation stack. It follows the same rules as [`navigation.navigate()`](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/navigating/#navigate-to-a-route-multiple-times). This means that the previous screen will be available when the user navigates back. You can use the `replace` prop to replace the current screen instead of pushing a new one.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <View>
      /* @info Navigate to <strong>/feed</strong> without adding it to the stack. */
      <Link replace href="/feed">Login</Link>
      /* @end */
    </View>
  );
}
```

Use `router.replace()` to replace the current screen imperatively.

Native navigation does not always support `replace`. For example on X, you wouldn't be able to "replace" directly from a profile to a tweet, this is because the UI requires a back button to return to the feed or other top-level tab screen. In this case, replace would switch to the feed tab, and push the tweet route on top of it, or if you were on a different tweet inside the feed tab, it would replace the current tweet with the new tweet. This exact behavior can be obtained in Expo Router by using [`unstable_settings`](/router/advanced/router-settings).

## Imperative navigation

You can also navigate imperatively using the `router` object. This is useful when you need to perform a navigation action outside a React component, such as in an event handler or a utility function.

```tsx
import { router } from 'expo-router';

export function logout() {
  /* @info Navigate to <strong>/login</strong> */
  router.replace('/login');
  /* @end */
}
```

The `router` object is immutable and contains the following functions:

- **navigate**: `(href: Href, options: LinkToOptions) => void`. Perform a `navigate` action.
- **push**: `(href: Href, options: LinkToOptions) => void`. Perform a `push` action.
- **replace**: `(href: Href, options: LinkToOptions) => void`. Perform a `replace` action.
- **back**: `() => void`. Navigate back to previous route.
- **canGoBack**: `() => boolean` Returns `true` if a valid history stack exists and the `back()` function can pop back.
- **setParams**: `(params: Record<string, string>) => void` Update the query params for the currently selected route.

## Autocomplete

Expo Router can automatically generate static TypeScript types for all routes in your app. This allows you to use autocomplete for `href`s and get warnings when invalid links are used. See [Statically Typed Routes](/router/reference/typed-routes) for more information.

## Web behavior

Expo Router supports the standard `<a>` element when running on web, however this will perform a full-page server-navigation. This is slower and doesn't take full advantage of React. Instead, the Expo Router `Link` component will perform client-side navigation, which will preserve the state of the website and navigate faster.

The web-only attributes `target`, `rel`, and `download` are also supported. These will be passed to the `<a>` element when running on web.

Client-side navigation works with both single-page apps, and [static rendering](/router/reference/static-rendering).

## Usage in simulators

See [Test the deep link](/linking/into-your-app/#test-the-deep-link) to learn how to emulate deep links in Android Emulators and iOS Simulators.
