docs/pages/modules/native-view-tutorial.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Creating a native view'
sidebar_title: Create a native view
description: A tutorial on creating a native view that renders a WebView with Expo Modules API.
---

import { AndroidIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/custom/AndroidIcon';
import { Grid01Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/Grid01Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

In this tutorial, we are going to build a module with a native view that will render a WebView. We will be using the [WebView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView) component for Android and [WKWebView](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/wkwebview) for iOS. It is possible to implement web support using [`iframe`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe), but we'll leave that as an exercise for the reader.

<Step label="1">

## Initialize a new module

First, we'll create a new module. On this page, we will use the name `expo-web-view`/`ExpoWebView`. You can name it whatever you like, just adjust the instructions accordingly:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module expo-web-view']} />

> **info** Since you aren't going to actually ship this library, you can hit <kbd>return</kbd> for all the prompts to accept the default values.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Set up our workspace

Now let's clean up the default module a little bit so we have more of a clean slate and delete the code that we won't use in this guide.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd expo-web-view && rm src/ExpoWebView.types.ts src/ExpoWebView.web.tsx src/ExpoWebViewModule.ts src/ExpoWebViewModule.web.ts"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd expo-web-view',
    '$ rm src/ExpoWebView.types.ts src/ExpoWebViewModule.ts',
    '$ rm src/ExpoWebView.web.tsx src/ExpoWebViewModule.web.ts',
  ]}
/>

Find the following files and replace them with the provided minimal boilerplate:

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {}
  }
}
```

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {}
  }
}
```

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type Props = ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

```tsx src/index.ts
export { default as WebView, Props as WebViewProps } from './ExpoWebView';
```

```ts example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return <WebView style={{ flex: 1, backgroundColor: 'purple' }} />;
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Run the example project

Now let's run the example project to make sure everything is working. We'll need to start the TypeScript compiler to watch for changes and rebuild the module JavaScript, and separately in another terminal window we'll compile and run the example app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npm run build"
  cmd={[
    '# Run this in the root of the project to start the TypeScript compiler',
    '$ npm run build',
  ]}
/>

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd example && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd example',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
  ]}
/>

We should now see a blank purple screen. That's not very exciting. However, it's a good start. Let's make it a WebView now.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Add the system WebView as a subview

Now we are going to add the system WebView with a hardcoded URL as a subview of our ExpoWebView. Our `ExpoWebView` class extends `ExpoView`, which extends `RCTView` from React Native, which finally extends `UIView` on iOS and `View` on Android. We need to ensure that the WebView subview has the same layout as ExpoWebView, whose layout will be calculated by React Native's layout engine.

### iOS view

On iOS, we set `clipsToBounds` to `true` and set the `frame` of the WebView to the bounds of the ExpoWebView in `layoutSubviews` to match the layout. `init` is called when the view is created, and `layoutSubviews` is called when the layout changes.

```swift ios/ExpoWebView.swift
import ExpoModulesCore
import WebKit

class ExpoWebView: ExpoView {
  let webView = WKWebView()

  required init(appContext: AppContext? = nil) {
    super.init(appContext: appContext)
    clipsToBounds = true
    addSubview(webView)

    let url =  URL(string:"https://docs.expo.dev/modules/")!
    let urlRequest = URLRequest(url:url)
    webView.load(urlRequest)
  }

  override func layoutSubviews() {
    webView.frame = bounds
  }
}
```

### Android view

On Android we use `LayoutParams` to set the layout of the WebView to match the layout of the ExpoWebView. We can do this when we instantiate the WebView.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebView.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import android.content.Context
import android.webkit.WebView
import android.webkit.WebViewClient
import expo.modules.kotlin.AppContext
import expo.modules.kotlin.views.ExpoView

class ExpoWebView(context: Context, appContext: AppContext) : ExpoView(context, appContext) {
  internal val webView = WebView(context).also {
    it.layoutParams = LayoutParams(LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT, LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT)
    it.webViewClient = object : WebViewClient() {}
    addView(it)

    it.loadUrl("https://docs.expo.dev/modules/")
  }
}
```

### Example app

No changes are needed, we can rebuild and run the app and you will see the [Expo Modules API overview page](/modules/).

</Step>

<Step label="5">

## Add a prop to set the URL

To set a prop on our view, we'll need to define the prop name and setter inside of `ExpoWebViewModule`. In this case we're going to reach in and access `webView` property directly for convenience, but in many real world cases you will likely want to keep this logic inside of the `ExpoWebView` class and minimize the knowledge that `ExpoWebViewModule` has about the internals of `ExpoWebView`.

We use the [Prop definition component](/modules/module-api/#prop) to define the prop. Within the prop setter block we can access the view and the prop. Note that we specify the url is of type `URL` — the Expo modules API will take care of converting strings to the native `URL` type for us.

### iOS module

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {
      Prop("url") { (view, url: URL) in
        if view.webView.url != url {
          let urlRequest = URLRequest(url: url)
          view.webView.load(urlRequest)
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Android module

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition
import java.net.URL

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {
      Prop("url") { view: ExpoWebView, url: URL? ->
        view.webView.loadUrl(url.toString())
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript module

All we need to do here is add the `url` prop to the `Props` type.

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type Props = {
  url?: string;
} & ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

### Example app

Finally, we can pass in a URL to our WebView component in the example app.

```tsx example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return <WebView style={{ flex: 1 }} url="https://expo.dev" />;
}
```

When you rebuild and run the app, you will now see the Expo homepage.

</Step>

<Step label="6">

## Add an event to notify when the page has loaded

[View callbacks](/modules/module-api/#view-callbacks) allow developers to listen for events on components. They are typically registered through props on the component, for example: `<Image onLoad={...} />`. We can use the [Events definition component](/modules/module-api/#events) to define an event for our WebView. We'll call it `onLoad` as well.

### iOS view and module

On iOS, we need to implement `webView(_:didFinish:)` and make ExpoWebView extend `WKNavigationDelegate`. We can then call the `onLoad` from that delegate method.

```swift ios/ExpoWebView.swift
import ExpoModulesCore
import WebKit

class ExpoWebView: ExpoView, WKNavigationDelegate {
  let webView = WKWebView()
  let onLoad = EventDispatcher()

  required init(appContext: AppContext? = nil) {
    super.init(appContext: appContext)
    clipsToBounds = true
    webView.navigationDelegate = self
    addSubview(webView)
  }

  override func layoutSubviews() {
    webView.frame = bounds
  }

  func webView(_ webView: WKWebView, didFinish navigation: WKNavigation!) {
    if let url = webView.url {
      onLoad([
        "url": url.absoluteString
      ])
    }
  }
}
```

And we need to indicate in ExpoWebViewModule that the `View` has an `onLoad` event.

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {
      Events("onLoad")

      Prop("url") { (view, url: URL) in
        if view.webView.url != url {
          let urlRequest = URLRequest(url: url)
          view.webView.load(urlRequest)
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Android view and module

On Android, we need to add override the `onPageFinished` function. We can then call the `onLoad` event handler that we defined in the module.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebView.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import android.content.Context
import android.webkit.WebView
import android.webkit.WebViewClient
import expo.modules.kotlin.AppContext
import expo.modules.kotlin.viewevent.EventDispatcher
import expo.modules.kotlin.views.ExpoView

class ExpoWebView(context: Context, appContext: AppContext) : ExpoView(context, appContext) {
  private val onLoad by EventDispatcher()

  internal val webView = WebView(context).also {
    it.layoutParams = LayoutParams(
      LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT,
      LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT
    )

    it.webViewClient = object : WebViewClient() {
      override fun onPageFinished(view: WebView, url: String) {
        onLoad(mapOf("url" to url))
      }
    }

    addView(it)
  }
}
```

And we need to indicate in ExpoWebViewModule that the `View` has an `onLoad` event.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition
import java.net.URL

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {
      Events("onLoad")

      Prop("url") { view: ExpoWebView, url: URL? ->
        view.webView.loadUrl(url.toString())
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript module

Note that event payloads are included within the `nativeEvent` property of the event, so to access the `url` from the `onLoad` event we would read `event.nativeEvent.url`.

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type OnLoadEvent = {
  url: string;
};

export type Props = {
  url?: string;
  onLoad?: (event: { nativeEvent: OnLoadEvent }) => void;
} & ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

### Example app

Now we can update the example app to show an alert when the page has loaded. Copy in the following code, then rebuild and run your app, and you should see the alert!

```tsx example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <WebView
      style={{ flex: 1 }}
      url="https://expo.dev"
      onLoad={event => alert(`loaded ${event.nativeEvent.url}`)}
    />
  );
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="7">

## Bonus: Build a web browser UI around it

Now that we have a web view, we can build a web browser UI around it. Have some fun trying to rebuild a browser UI, and maybe even add new native capabilities as needed (for example, to support a back or reload buttons). If you'd like some inspiration, there's a simple example below.

<Collapsible summary="example/App.tsx">

```tsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import { ActivityIndicator, Platform, Text, TextInput, View } from 'react-native';
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  const [inputUrl, setInputUrl] = useState('https://docs.expo.dev/modules/');
  const [url, setUrl] = useState(inputUrl);
  const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(true);

  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, paddingTop: Platform.OS === 'ios' ? 80 : 30 }}>
      <TextInput
        value={inputUrl}
        onChangeText={setInputUrl}
        returnKeyType="go"
        autoCapitalize="none"
        onSubmitEditing={() => {
          if (inputUrl !== url) {
            setUrl(inputUrl);
            setIsLoading(true);
          }
        }}
        keyboardType="url"
        style={{
          color: '#fff',
          backgroundColor: '#000',
          borderRadius: 10,
          marginHorizontal: 10,
          paddingHorizontal: 20,
          height: 60,
        }}
      />

      <WebView
        url={url.startsWith('https://') || url.startsWith('http://') ? url : `https://${url}`}
        onLoad={() => setIsLoading(false)}
        style={{ flex: 1, marginTop: 20 }}
      />
      <LoadingView isLoading={isLoading} />
    </View>
  );
}

function LoadingView({ isLoading }: { isLoading: boolean }) {
  if (!isLoading) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        position: 'absolute',
        bottom: 0,
        left: 0,
        right: 0,
        height: 80,
        backgroundColor: 'rgba(0,0,0,0.5)',
        paddingBottom: 10,
        justifyContent: 'center',
        alignItems: 'center',
        flexDirection: 'row',
      }}>
      <ActivityIndicator animating={isLoading} color="#fff" style={{ marginRight: 10 }} />
      <Text style={{ color: '#fff' }}>Loading...</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

</Collapsible>

![A simple web browser UI built around our WebView](/static/images/modules/native-view-tutorial/web-browser.png)

</Step>

Congratulations, you have created your first simple yet non-trivial Expo module with a native view for Android and iOS!

## Next steps

<BoxLink
  title="Expo Modules API Reference"
  description="Create native modules using Swift and Kotlin."
  href="/modules/module-api/"
  Icon={Grid01Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Tutorial: Creating a native module"
  description="A tutorial on creating a native module that persists settings with Expo Modules API."
  href="/modules/native-module-tutorial/"
  Icon={AndroidIcon}
/>

Commit message:

[docs] improve prebuilding example app steps

docs/pages/modules/native-view-tutorial.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Creating a native view'
sidebar_title: Create a native view
description: A tutorial on creating a native view that renders a WebView with Expo Modules API.
---

import { AndroidIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/custom/AndroidIcon';
import { Grid01Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/Grid01Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

In this tutorial, we are going to build a module with a native view that will render a WebView. We will be using the [WebView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView) component for Android and [WKWebView](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/wkwebview) for iOS. It is possible to implement web support using [`iframe`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe), but we'll leave that as an exercise for the reader.

<Step label="1">

## Initialize a new module

First, we'll create a new module. On this page, we will use the name `expo-web-view`/`ExpoWebView`. You can name it whatever you like, just adjust the instructions accordingly:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module expo-web-view']} />

> **info** Since you aren't going to actually ship this library, you can hit <kbd>return</kbd> for all the prompts to accept the default values.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Set up our workspace

Now let's clean up the default module a little bit so we have more of a clean slate and delete the code that we won't use in this guide.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd expo-web-view && rm src/ExpoWebView.types.ts src/ExpoWebView.web.tsx src/ExpoWebViewModule.ts src/ExpoWebViewModule.web.ts"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd expo-web-view',
    '$ rm src/ExpoWebView.types.ts src/ExpoWebViewModule.ts',
    '$ rm src/ExpoWebView.web.tsx src/ExpoWebViewModule.web.ts',
  ]}
/>

Find the following files and replace them with the provided minimal boilerplate:

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {}
  }
}
```

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {}
  }
}
```

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type Props = ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

```tsx src/index.ts
export { default as WebView, Props as WebViewProps } from './ExpoWebView';
```

```ts example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return <WebView style={{ flex: 1, backgroundColor: 'purple' }} />;
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Run the example project

Now let's run the example project to make sure everything is working. We'll need to start the TypeScript compiler to watch for changes and rebuild the module JavaScript, and separately in another terminal window we'll compile and run the example app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npm run build"
  cmd={[
    '# Run this in the root of the project to start the TypeScript compiler',
    '$ npm run build',
  ]}
/>

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd example && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Navigate to the example directory',
    '$ cd example',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
  ]}
/>

We should now see a blank purple screen. That's not very exciting. However, it's a good start. Let's make it a WebView now.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Add the system WebView as a subview

Now we are going to add the system WebView with a hardcoded URL as a subview of our ExpoWebView. Our `ExpoWebView` class extends `ExpoView`, which extends `RCTView` from React Native, which finally extends `UIView` on iOS and `View` on Android. We need to ensure that the WebView subview has the same layout as ExpoWebView, whose layout will be calculated by React Native's layout engine.

### iOS view

On iOS, we set `clipsToBounds` to `true` and set the `frame` of the WebView to the bounds of the ExpoWebView in `layoutSubviews` to match the layout. `init` is called when the view is created, and `layoutSubviews` is called when the layout changes.

```swift ios/ExpoWebView.swift
import ExpoModulesCore
import WebKit

class ExpoWebView: ExpoView {
  let webView = WKWebView()

  required init(appContext: AppContext? = nil) {
    super.init(appContext: appContext)
    clipsToBounds = true
    addSubview(webView)

    let url =  URL(string:"https://docs.expo.dev/modules/")!
    let urlRequest = URLRequest(url:url)
    webView.load(urlRequest)
  }

  override func layoutSubviews() {
    webView.frame = bounds
  }
}
```

### Android view

On Android we use `LayoutParams` to set the layout of the WebView to match the layout of the ExpoWebView. We can do this when we instantiate the WebView.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebView.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import android.content.Context
import android.webkit.WebView
import android.webkit.WebViewClient
import expo.modules.kotlin.AppContext
import expo.modules.kotlin.views.ExpoView

class ExpoWebView(context: Context, appContext: AppContext) : ExpoView(context, appContext) {
  internal val webView = WebView(context).also {
    it.layoutParams = LayoutParams(LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT, LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT)
    it.webViewClient = object : WebViewClient() {}
    addView(it)

    it.loadUrl("https://docs.expo.dev/modules/")
  }
}
```

### Example app

No changes are required. You can rebuild and run the app using the following commands:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Prebuild the example app with the --clean flag to ensure a clean build',
    'npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    'npx expo run:ios',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    'npx expo run:android',
  ]}
/>

After that, you should be able to see the [Expo Modules API overview page](/modules/). If the changes are not reflected, try reinstalling the app.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

## Add a prop to set the URL

To set a prop on our view, we'll need to define the prop name and setter inside of `ExpoWebViewModule`. In this case we're going to reach in and access `webView` property directly for convenience, but in many real world cases you will likely want to keep this logic inside of the `ExpoWebView` class and minimize the knowledge that `ExpoWebViewModule` has about the internals of `ExpoWebView`.

We use the [Prop definition component](/modules/module-api/#prop) to define the prop. Within the prop setter block we can access the view and the prop. Note that we specify the url is of type `URL` — the Expo modules API will take care of converting strings to the native `URL` type for us.

### iOS module

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {
      Prop("url") { (view, url: URL) in
        if view.webView.url != url {
          let urlRequest = URLRequest(url: url)
          view.webView.load(urlRequest)
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Android module

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition
import java.net.URL

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {
      Prop("url") { view: ExpoWebView, url: URL? ->
        view.webView.loadUrl(url.toString())
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript module

All we need to do here is add the `url` prop to the `Props` type.

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type Props = {
  url?: string;
} & ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

### Example app

Finally, we can pass in a URL to our WebView component in the example app.

```tsx example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return <WebView style={{ flex: 1 }} url="https://expo.dev" />;
}
```

Rebuild the example app:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    'npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    'npx expo run:ios',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    'npx expo run:android',
  ]}
/>

After that, you should be able to see the [Expo homepage](/https://expo.dev) in the WebView.

</Step>

<Step label="6">

## Add an event to notify when the page has loaded

[View callbacks](/modules/module-api/#view-callbacks) allow developers to listen for events on components. They are typically registered through props on the component, for example: `<Image onLoad={...} />`. We can use the [Events definition component](/modules/module-api/#events) to define an event for our WebView. We'll call it `onLoad` as well.

### iOS view and module

On iOS, we need to implement `webView(_:didFinish:)` and make ExpoWebView extend `WKNavigationDelegate`. We can then call the `onLoad` from that delegate method.

```swift ios/ExpoWebView.swift
import ExpoModulesCore
import WebKit

class ExpoWebView: ExpoView, WKNavigationDelegate {
  let webView = WKWebView()
  let onLoad = EventDispatcher()

  required init(appContext: AppContext? = nil) {
    super.init(appContext: appContext)
    clipsToBounds = true
    webView.navigationDelegate = self
    addSubview(webView)
  }

  override func layoutSubviews() {
    webView.frame = bounds
  }

  func webView(_ webView: WKWebView, didFinish navigation: WKNavigation!) {
    if let url = webView.url {
      onLoad([
        "url": url.absoluteString
      ])
    }
  }
}
```

And we need to indicate in ExpoWebViewModule that the `View` has an `onLoad` event.

```swift ios/ExpoWebViewModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoWebViewModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView.self) {
      Events("onLoad")

      Prop("url") { (view, url: URL) in
        if view.webView.url != url {
          let urlRequest = URLRequest(url: url)
          view.webView.load(urlRequest)
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Android view and module

On Android, we need to add override the `onPageFinished` function. We can then call the `onLoad` event handler that we defined in the module.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebView.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import android.content.Context
import android.webkit.WebView
import android.webkit.WebViewClient
import expo.modules.kotlin.AppContext
import expo.modules.kotlin.viewevent.EventDispatcher
import expo.modules.kotlin.views.ExpoView

class ExpoWebView(context: Context, appContext: AppContext) : ExpoView(context, appContext) {
  private val onLoad by EventDispatcher()

  internal val webView = WebView(context).also {
    it.layoutParams = LayoutParams(
      LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT,
      LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT
    )

    it.webViewClient = object : WebViewClient() {
      override fun onPageFinished(view: WebView, url: String) {
        onLoad(mapOf("url" to url))
      }
    }

    addView(it)
  }
}
```

And we need to indicate in ExpoWebViewModule that the `View` has an `onLoad` event.

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/webview/ExpoWebViewModule.kt
package expo.modules.webview

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition
import java.net.URL

class ExpoWebViewModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoWebView")

    View(ExpoWebView::class) {
      Events("onLoad")

      Prop("url") { view: ExpoWebView, url: URL? ->
        view.webView.loadUrl(url.toString())
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript module

Note that event payloads are included within the `nativeEvent` property of the event, so to access the `url` from the `onLoad` event we would read `event.nativeEvent.url`.

```tsx src/ExpoWebView.tsx
import { ViewProps } from 'react-native';
import { requireNativeViewManager } from 'expo-modules-core';
import * as React from 'react';

export type OnLoadEvent = {
  url: string;
};

export type Props = {
  url?: string;
  onLoad?: (event: { nativeEvent: OnLoadEvent }) => void;
} & ViewProps;

const NativeView: React.ComponentType<Props> = requireNativeViewManager('ExpoWebView');

export default function ExpoWebView(props: Props) {
  return <NativeView {...props} />;
}
```

### Example app

Now we can update the example app to show an alert when the page has loaded. Copy in the following code, then rebuild and run your app, and you should see the alert!

```tsx example/App.tsx
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <WebView
      style={{ flex: 1 }}
      url="https://expo.dev"
      onLoad={event => alert(`loaded ${event.nativeEvent.url}`)}
    />
  );
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="7">

## Bonus: Build a web browser UI around it

Now that we have a web view, we can build a web browser UI around it. Have some fun trying to rebuild a browser UI, and maybe even add new native capabilities as needed (for example, to support a back or reload buttons). If you'd like some inspiration, there's a simple example below.

<Collapsible summary="example/App.tsx">

```tsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import { ActivityIndicator, Platform, Text, TextInput, View } from 'react-native';
import { WebView } from 'expo-web-view';

export default function App() {
  const [inputUrl, setInputUrl] = useState('https://docs.expo.dev/modules/');
  const [url, setUrl] = useState(inputUrl);
  const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(true);

  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, paddingTop: Platform.OS === 'ios' ? 80 : 30 }}>
      <TextInput
        value={inputUrl}
        onChangeText={setInputUrl}
        returnKeyType="go"
        autoCapitalize="none"
        onSubmitEditing={() => {
          if (inputUrl !== url) {
            setUrl(inputUrl);
            setIsLoading(true);
          }
        }}
        keyboardType="url"
        style={{
          color: '#fff',
          backgroundColor: '#000',
          borderRadius: 10,
          marginHorizontal: 10,
          paddingHorizontal: 20,
          height: 60,
        }}
      />

      <WebView
        url={url.startsWith('https://') || url.startsWith('http://') ? url : `https://${url}`}
        onLoad={() => setIsLoading(false)}
        style={{ flex: 1, marginTop: 20 }}
      />
      <LoadingView isLoading={isLoading} />
    </View>
  );
}

function LoadingView({ isLoading }: { isLoading: boolean }) {
  if (!isLoading) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        position: 'absolute',
        bottom: 0,
        left: 0,
        right: 0,
        height: 80,
        backgroundColor: 'rgba(0,0,0,0.5)',
        paddingBottom: 10,
        justifyContent: 'center',
        alignItems: 'center',
        flexDirection: 'row',
      }}>
      <ActivityIndicator animating={isLoading} color="#fff" style={{ marginRight: 10 }} />
      <Text style={{ color: '#fff' }}>Loading...</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

</Collapsible>

![A simple web browser UI built around our WebView](/static/images/modules/native-view-tutorial/web-browser.png)

</Step>

Congratulations, you have created your first simple yet non-trivial Expo module with a native view for Android and iOS!

## Next steps

<BoxLink
  title="Expo Modules API Reference"
  description="Create native modules using Swift and Kotlin."
  href="/modules/module-api/"
  Icon={Grid01Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Tutorial: Creating a native module"
  description="A tutorial on creating a native module that persists settings with Expo Modules API."
  href="/modules/native-module-tutorial/"
  Icon={AndroidIcon}
/>
