docs/pages/modules/use-create-expo-module-in-your-project.mdx, before:

---
title: How to use a module created with create-expo-module in your project
sidebar_title: Use a module created with create-expo-module
description: Learn how to use a module created with create-expo-module in your project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

There are two main ways to use a module created with `create-expo-module` inside an existing project: configuring a monorepo or publishing the module to npm. This guide walkthroughs both methods.

## Using a monorepo

For this guide, we assume that you have the following project structure:

- **apps/** - Contains multiple projects, including React Native apps.
- **packages/** - Contains different packages used by your apps.
- **package.json** - Root package file containing Yarn workspaces config.

If you need to familiarize yourself with configuring your project as a monorepo, see [**Working with monorepos**](/guides/monorepos/) guide.

### 1. Initialize a new module

Once you have set up the basic monorepo structure, create a new module using `create-expo-module` with the flag `no-example` to skip creating the example app:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module packages/expo-settings --no-example']} />

### 2. Set up our workspace

Now, let's configure `autolinking` so all your apps can use the newly created module. Add the following block to the **package.json** file of each app under the **apps** directory:

```json package.json
"expo": {
  "autolinking": {
    "nativeModulesDir": "../../packages"
  }
}
```

### 3. Run the module

Run one of the apps to ensure everything is working. Then, start the TypeScript compiler inside **packages/expo-settings** to watch for changes and rebuild the module JavaScript:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd packages/expo-settings && npm run build"
  cmd={['$ cd packages/expo-settings', '$ npm run build']}
/>

Open another terminal window, choose one of your apps under the **apps** folder, and run the `prebuild` command. You'll have to repeat these steps for all apps inside your monorepo to use the new module.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

Compile and run the app with the following command:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Run the app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

You can now use the module inside your app. To test this, let's edit the **App.js** file in the app and render the a text message from the `expo-settings` module:

```jsx App.js
import * as Settings from 'expo-settings';
import { StatusBar } from 'expo-status-bar';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>{Settings.hello()}</Text>
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}
```

If you've configured everything correctly, you'll see a text saying "Hello world! 👋" in the app.

## Publish the module to npm

You can publish the module on npm and then add it to your project by installing it as a dependency.

### 1. Initialize a new module

Start by creating a new module using `create-expo-module`. Pay attention to each prompt as you'll publish this library, and choose a unique name for your npm package.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module expo-settings']} />

### 2. Run the example project

Run the example project to make sure everything is working. Then, start the TypeScript compiler to watch for changes and rebuild the JavaScript module.

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Run this in the root of the project to start the TypeScript compiler',
    '$ npm run build',
  ]}
/>

Open another terminal window, compile and run the example app:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd example && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd example',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

### 3. Publish your package to npm

To publish your package to npm, you need to have an npm account. If you don't have one, create it on [the npm website](https://www.npmjs.com/signup). Once you have an account, log in using the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm login']} />

Then, navigate to the root of your module and publish your module running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm publish']} />

Your module will now be published to npm and can be installed in other projects using `npm install`.

Apart from publishing your module to npm, there are other ways to use it in your project. One way is to create a tarball of your module using `npm pack` and install it directly in your project by running `npm install /path/to/tarball`. This is useful if you want to test your module locally before publishing it to npm or if you want to share it with others who don't have access to the npm registry. Another way is to run a local npm registry and install your module from there.

If you want to publish a private private package or use a private registry with EAS Builds you can read how to configure it [here](https://docs.expo.dev/build-reference/private-npm-packages/).

### 4. Test the published module

To test the published module in a new project, create a new app and install the module as a dependency:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx create-expo-app my-app && cd my-app && npx expo install expo-settings"
  cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app my-app', '$ cd my-app', '$ npx expo install expo-settings']}
/>

You should now be able to use the module inside your app! To test it, edit the **App.js** in the app and render the text message from **expo-settings**.

```jsx App.js
import * as Settings from 'expo-settings';
import { StatusBar } from 'expo-status-bar';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>{Settings.hello()}</Text>
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}
```

To run your app locally, run the `prebuild` command and then compile the app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Re-generate the native project directories from scratch',
    '$ npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

If you've configured everything correctly, you'll see a text saying "Hello world! 👋" in the app.

Commit message:

Update 'Publish the module to npm' section

docs/pages/modules/use-create-expo-module-in-your-project.mdx, after:

---
title: How to use a module created with create-expo-module in your project
sidebar_title: Use a module created with create-expo-module
description: Learn how to use a module created with create-expo-module in your project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

There are two main ways to use a module created with `create-expo-module` inside an existing project: configuring a monorepo or publishing the module to npm. This guide walkthroughs both methods.

## Using a monorepo

For this guide, we assume that you have the following project structure:

- **apps/** - Contains multiple projects, including React Native apps.
- **packages/** - Contains different packages used by your apps.
- **package.json** - Root package file containing Yarn workspaces config.

If you need to familiarize yourself with configuring your project as a monorepo, see [**Working with monorepos**](/guides/monorepos/) guide.

### 1. Initialize a new module

Once you have set up the basic monorepo structure, create a new module using `create-expo-module` with the flag `no-example` to skip creating the example app:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module packages/expo-settings --no-example']} />

### 2. Set up our workspace

Now, let's configure `autolinking` so all your apps can use the newly created module. Add the following block to the **package.json** file of each app under the **apps** directory:

```json package.json
"expo": {
  "autolinking": {
    "nativeModulesDir": "../../packages"
  }
}
```

### 3. Run the module

Run one of the apps to ensure everything is working. Then, start the TypeScript compiler inside **packages/expo-settings** to watch for changes and rebuild the module JavaScript:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd packages/expo-settings && npm run build"
  cmd={['$ cd packages/expo-settings', '$ npm run build']}
/>

Open another terminal window, choose an app from the **apps** directory, and run the `prebuild` command. You'll have to repeat these steps for all apps inside your monorepo to use the new module.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

Compile and run the app with the following command:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Run the app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

You can now use the module inside your app. To test this, let's edit the **App.js** file in the app and render the a text message from the `expo-settings` module:

```jsx App.js
import * as Settings from 'expo-settings';
import { StatusBar } from 'expo-status-bar';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>{Settings.hello()}</Text>
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}
```

If you've configured everything correctly, you'll see a text saying "Hello world! 👋" in the app.

## Publish the module to npm

You can publish the module on npm and then add it to your project by installing it as a dependency.

### 1. Initialize a new module

Start by creating a new module using `create-expo-module`. Pay attention to each prompt as you'll publish this library, and choose a unique name for your npm package.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module expo-settings']} />

### 2. Run the example project

Run the example project to make sure everything is working. Then, start the TypeScript compiler to watch for changes and rebuild the JavaScript module.

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Run this in the root of the project to start the TypeScript compiler',
    '$ npm run build',
  ]}
/>

Open another terminal window, compile and run the example app:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd example && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd example',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

### 3. Publish your package to npm

To publish your package to npm, you need to have an npm account. If you don't have one, create it on [the npm website](https://www.npmjs.com/signup). Once you have an account, log in using the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm login']} />

Then, navigate to the root of your module and publish your module running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm publish']} />

Your module will now be published to npm and can be installed in other projects using `npm install`.

Apart from publishing your module to npm, there are other ways to use it in your project:

- Creating a tarball of of your module using `npm pack` and install it directly in your project by running `npm install /path/to/tarball`. It's useful to test your module locally before publishing it to npm or if you want to share it with others who don't have access to the npm registry.
- Running a local npm registry, such as [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/), and installing your module from there. This is useful for cases where you want to host your own private npm registry to manage internal packages within a company or organization.
- If you want to [publish a private package or use a private registry with EAS Builds](https://docs.expo.dev/build-reference/private-npm-packages/).

If you want to publish a private private package or use a private registry with EAS Builds you can read how to configure it [here](https://docs.expo.dev/build-reference/private-npm-packages/).

### 4. Test the published module

To test the published module in a new project, create a new app and install the module as a dependency:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx create-expo-app my-app && cd my-app && npx expo install expo-settings"
  cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app my-app', '$ cd my-app', '$ npx expo install expo-settings']}
/>

You should now be able to use the module inside your app! To test it, edit the **App.js** in the app and render the text message from **expo-settings**.

```jsx App.js
import * as Settings from 'expo-settings';
import { StatusBar } from 'expo-status-bar';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>{Settings.hello()}</Text>
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}
```

To run your app locally, run the `prebuild` command and then compile the app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Re-generate the native project directories from scratch',
    '$ npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

If you've configured everything correctly, you'll see a text saying "Hello world! 👋" in the app.
