docs/pages/build-reference/git-submodules.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Git submodules
sidebar_title: Git submodules
description: Learn how to configure EAS Build to use git submodules.
hideTOC: true
---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

When using the default Version Control Systems (VCS) workflow, the content of your working directory is uploaded to EAS Build as it is, including the content of Git submodules. However, if you are building on CI or have `cli.requireCommit` set to `true` in **eas.json** or have a submodule in a private repository, you will need to initialize it to avoid uploading empty directories.

## Submodules initialization

To initialize a submodule on EAS Build builder:

<Step label="1">

Create a [secret](/build-reference/variables/#using-secrets-in-environment-variables) with a base64 encoded private SSH key that has permission to access submodule repositories.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Add an [`eas-build-pre-install` npm hook](/build-reference/npm-hooks/) to check out those submodules, for example:

```bash eas-build-pre-install.sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash

mkdir -p ~/.ssh

# Real origin URL is lost during the packaging process, so if your
# submodules are defined using relative urls in .gitmodules then
# you need to restore it with:
#
# git remote set-url origin git@github.com:example/repo.git

# restore private key from env variable and generate public key
echo "$SSH_KEY_BASE64" | base64 -d > ~/.ssh/id_rsa
chmod 0600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
ssh-keygen -y -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa > ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

# add your git provider to the list of known hosts
ssh-keyscan github.com >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts

git submodule update --init
```

</Step>

Commit message:

Expand git-submodules instructions
Add instructions on how to generate a base64 encoded ssh key, and changed the load-ssh-keys script to work for both android and ios builds

docs/pages/build-reference/git-submodules.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Git submodules
sidebar_title: Git submodules
description: Learn how to configure EAS Build to use git submodules.
hideTOC: true
---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

When using the default Version Control Systems (VCS) workflow, the content of your working directory is uploaded to EAS Build as it is, including the content of Git submodules. However, if you are building on CI or have `cli.requireCommit` set to `true` in **eas.json** or have a submodule in a private repository, you will need to initialize it to avoid uploading empty directories.

## Submodules initialization

To initialize a submodule on EAS Build builder:

<Step label="1">

Encode the ssh key you want to use as base64
```bash
openssl enc -base64 -in my.key -out my.key.base64
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Create a [secret](/build-reference/variables/#using-secrets-in-environment-variables) with a base64 encoded private SSH key that has permission to access submodule repositories.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Add an [`eas-build-pre-install` npm hook](/build-reference/npm-hooks/) to check out those submodules, for example:

```bash eas-build-pre-install.sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash

mkdir -p ~/.ssh

# Real origin URL is lost during the packaging process, so if your
# submodules are defined using relative urls in .gitmodules then
# you need to restore it with:
#
# git remote set-url origin git@github.com:example/repo.git

# restore private key from env variable and generate public key
# On android build servers, the -i flag is necessary to parse newlines
# On macOS, this flag means "input file", so it has to be omitted
if [[ "$EAS_BUILD_PLATFORM" == "android" ]]; then
  echo "$SSH_KEY_BASE64" | base64 -di > ~/.ssh/id_rsa
elif [[ "$EAS_BUILD_PLATFORM" == "ios" ]]; then
  echo "$SSH_KEY_BASE64" | base64 -d > ~/.ssh/id_rsa
fi
chmod 0600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
ssh-keygen -y -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa > ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

# add your git provider to the list of known hosts
ssh-keyscan github.com >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts

git submodule update --init
```

</Step>
