docs/pages/build-reference/infrastructure.mdx, before:

---
modificationDate: July 31st, 2024
title: Build server infrastructure
sidebar_title: Server infrastructure
maxHeadingDepth: 4
description: Learn about the current build server infrastructure when using EAS.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BuildResourceList } from '~/ui/components/utils/infrastructure';

## Builder IP addresses

A list of the IP addresses of the build servers is available [in this file](https://expo.dev/eas-build-worker-ips.txt). We do not expect to change the list often. The list includes "Last-Modified" and "Expires" ISO 8601 timestamps that respectively specify the last time the list was updated and the time until which we commit to not change the list.

Linux runners are hosted in Google Cloud Platform. macOS runners are hosted in our own macOS cloud.

## Configuring build environment

Images for each platform have one specific version of Node.js, yarn, CocoaPods, Xcode, Ruby, Fastlane, and so on. You can override some of the versions in [eas.json](/build/eas-json). If there is no dedicated configuration option you are looking for, you can use [npm hooks](/build-reference/npm-hooks) to install or update any system dependencies with `apt-get` or `brew`. Consider that those customizations are applied during the build and will increase your build times.

When selecting an image for the build you can use the full name provided below or one of the aliases: `auto`, `latest`, `sdk-50` or `sdk-49`.

- The use of a specific name guarantees a consistent environment with only minor updates.
- When using the `auto` alias, the build image will be selected based on the project configuration, Expo SDK version, and React Native version. You can check what image is used for a build in the **Spin up build environment** build logs section.
- The `latest` alias will be assigned to the image with the most up-to-date versions of the software.
- The `sdk-50` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 50 builds.
- The `sdk-49` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 49 builds.
- SDK aliases will be updated with every new SDK release.
- The `latest` alias will be updated with every new image release.

> **info** **Note:** If you do not provide `image` in **eas.json**, your build by default will use the `auto` alias.

## Android build server configurations

Android builders run on virtual machines in an isolated environment. Every build gets its own dedicated VM instance.

- Build resources:

  <BuildResourceList platform="android" />

- [npm cache deployed with Kubernetes](/build-reference/caching/#javascript-dependencies)
- [Maven cache deployed with Kubernetes](/build-reference/caching/#android-dependencies)
- Global Gradle configuration in **~/.gradle/gradle.properties**:

  ```ini ~/.gradle/gradle.properties
  org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx14g -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8
  org.gradle.parallel=true
  org.gradle.configureondemand=true
  org.gradle.daemon=false
  ```

- Global npm configuration in **~/.npmrc**:

  ```ini ~/.npmrc
  registry=http://10.4.0.19:4873
  ```

- Global Yarn configuration in **~/.yarnrc.yml**:

  ```yml ~/.yarnrc.yml
  unsafeHttpWhitelist:
    - '*'
  npmRegistryServer: 'http://10.4.0.19:4873'
  enableImmutableInstalls: false
  ```

### Android server images

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r26b` (`latest`, `sdk-51`, `sdk-52`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-v20240614`
- NDK 26.1.10909125
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.13
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.3.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.1.0

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r25b` (`sdk-50`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 25.1.8937393
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.9.2
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-11-ndk-r23b` (`sdk-49`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 23.1.7779620
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.5
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r21e`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.9.2
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-11-ndk-r21e`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.5
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-8-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r23b` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 23.1.7779620
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-8-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r19c` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 19.2.5345600
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-8-ndk-r19c` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 19.2.5345600
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

## iOS build server configurations

iOS builder VMs run on Mac mini hosts in an isolated environment. Every build gets its own fresh macOS VM. For more information, see [iOS-specific resource classes](/eas/json/#resourceclass-2).

- Hardware:

  - M1 3.2GHz 8-Core, 16 GB RAM
  - M2 3.9GHz 8-Core, 24 GB RAM
  - M2 Pro 3.9GHz 12-Core, 32 GB RAM

- Build resources:

  <BuildResourceList platform="ios" />

- [npm cache](/build-reference/caching/#javascript-dependencies)
- [CocoaPods cache](/build-reference/caching/#ios-dependencies)
- [`cocoapods-nexus-plugin`](https://github.com/expo/eas-build/tree/main/packages/cocoapods-nexus-plugin)
- Global npm configuration in **~/.npmrc**:

  ```ini ~/.npmrc
  registry=http://10.94.183.70:4873
  ```

- Global Yarn configuration in **~/.yarnrc.yml**:

  ```yml ~/.yarnrc.yml
  unsafeHttpWhitelist:
    - '*'
  npmRegistryServer: 'http://10.94.183.70:4873'
  enableImmutableInstalls: false
  ```

### iOS server images

#### `macos-sonoma-14.6-xcode-16.1` (`latest`, `sdk-52`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.6
- Xcode 16.1 (16B40)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.33
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.12.3
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.225.0
- CocoaPods 1.16.0
- Ruby 3.2
- node-gyp 10.2.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.6-xcode-16.0`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.6
- Xcode 16.0 (16A242d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.27
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.10.0
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.222.0
- CocoaPods 1.15.2
- Ruby 3.2
- node-gyp 10.2.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.5-xcode-15.4` (`sdk-51`, `sdk-50`, `sdk-49`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.5
- Xcode 15.4 (15F31d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.13
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.3.0
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.220.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.1.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.4-xcode-15.3`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.4.1
- Xcode 15.3 (15E204a)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.35
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 8.14.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.219.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.2`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.2 (15C500b)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.23
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 8.14.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.219.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.1`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.1 (15C65)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.12.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.217.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.0`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.0 (15A240d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.6
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.216.0
- CocoaPods 1.13.0
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

### Supported Xcode versions

We aim to support all stable Xcode releases that allow you to submit your app to the App Store Connect when used during the build process.

This usually means that we support the latest stable Xcode version and the previous one (until the new [minimal Xcode version requirement](https://developer.apple.com/news/upcoming-requirements/?id=04292024a) is introduced by Apple).

Commit message:

[docs] Update modification date and add info about SDK 52 & SDK 51, improve tag example (#32539)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

Found that modification date wasn't up to date for this page after new
image info was added in https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/32503.

Also, the example and usage of tag was outdated since it didn't
mentioned SDK 51.

# How

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

- Update the modification date to reflect the changes from
https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/32503
- Update the selecting an image verbiage for SDK to specify it as an
example (so that we don't have to do update it every time).
- Add tag usage verbiage for SDK 52 and SDK 51.

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

![CleanShot 2024-11-01 at 23 11
32](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3ada1d48-e7cd-4321-86b8-8b792dcc7114)


# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [x] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

docs/pages/build-reference/infrastructure.mdx, after:

---
modificationDate: October 31st, 2024
title: Build server infrastructure
sidebar_title: Server infrastructure
maxHeadingDepth: 4
description: Learn about the current build server infrastructure when using EAS.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BuildResourceList } from '~/ui/components/utils/infrastructure';

## Builder IP addresses

A list of the IP addresses of the build servers is available [in this file](https://expo.dev/eas-build-worker-ips.txt). We do not expect to change the list often. The list includes "Last-Modified" and "Expires" ISO 8601 timestamps that respectively specify the last time the list was updated and the time until which we commit to not change the list.

Linux runners are hosted in Google Cloud Platform. macOS runners are hosted in our own macOS cloud.

## Configuring build environment

Images for each platform have one specific version of Node.js, yarn, CocoaPods, Xcode, Ruby, Fastlane, and so on. You can override some of the versions in [eas.json](/build/eas-json). If there is no dedicated configuration option you are looking for, you can use [npm hooks](/build-reference/npm-hooks) to install or update any system dependencies with `apt-get` or `brew`. Consider that those customizations are applied during the build and will increase your build times.

When selecting an image for the build you can use the full name provided below or one of the aliases: `auto`, `latest`, or for a particular SDK such as `sdk-52`.

- The use of a specific name guarantees a consistent environment with only minor updates.
- When using the `auto` alias, the build image will be selected based on the project configuration, Expo SDK version, and React Native version. You can check what image is used for a build in the **Spin up build environment** build logs section.
- The `latest` alias will be assigned to the image with the most up-to-date versions of the software.
- The `sdk-52` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 52 builds.
- The `sdk-51` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 51 builds.
- The `sdk-50` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 50 builds.
- The `sdk-49` alias will be assigned to the image best suited for SDK 49 builds.
- SDK aliases will be updated with every new SDK release.
- The `latest` alias will be updated with every new image release.

> **info** **Note:** If you do not provide `image` in **eas.json**, your build by default will use the `auto` alias.

## Android build server configurations

Android builders run on virtual machines in an isolated environment. Every build gets its own dedicated VM instance.

- Build resources:

  <BuildResourceList platform="android" />

- [npm cache deployed with Kubernetes](/build-reference/caching/#javascript-dependencies)
- [Maven cache deployed with Kubernetes](/build-reference/caching/#android-dependencies)
- Global Gradle configuration in **~/.gradle/gradle.properties**:

  ```ini ~/.gradle/gradle.properties
  org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx14g -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8
  org.gradle.parallel=true
  org.gradle.configureondemand=true
  org.gradle.daemon=false
  ```

- Global npm configuration in **~/.npmrc**:

  ```ini ~/.npmrc
  registry=http://10.4.0.19:4873
  ```

- Global Yarn configuration in **~/.yarnrc.yml**:

  ```yml ~/.yarnrc.yml
  unsafeHttpWhitelist:
    - '*'
  npmRegistryServer: 'http://10.4.0.19:4873'
  enableImmutableInstalls: false
  ```

### Android server images

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r26b` (`latest`, `sdk-51`, `sdk-52`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-v20240614`
- NDK 26.1.10909125
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.13
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.3.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.1.0

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r25b` (`sdk-50`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 25.1.8937393
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.9.2
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-11-ndk-r23b` (`sdk-49`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 23.1.7779620
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.5
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-17-ndk-r21e`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.9.2
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 17
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-11-ndk-r21e`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.5
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-22.04-jdk-8-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:jammy-20220810`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r23b` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 23.1.7779620
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-8-ndk-r21e` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 21.4.7075529
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-11-ndk-r19c` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 19.2.5345600
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 11
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `ubuntu-20.04-jdk-8-ndk-r19c` (deprecated)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- Docker image: `ubuntu:focal-20220823`
- NDK 19.2.5345600
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 7.0.0
- npm 9.8.1
- Java 8
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

## iOS build server configurations

iOS builder VMs run on Mac mini hosts in an isolated environment. Every build gets its own fresh macOS VM. For more information, see [iOS-specific resource classes](/eas/json/#resourceclass-2).

- Hardware:

  - M1 3.2GHz 8-Core, 16 GB RAM
  - M2 3.9GHz 8-Core, 24 GB RAM
  - M2 Pro 3.9GHz 12-Core, 32 GB RAM

- Build resources:

  <BuildResourceList platform="ios" />

- [npm cache](/build-reference/caching/#javascript-dependencies)
- [CocoaPods cache](/build-reference/caching/#ios-dependencies)
- [`cocoapods-nexus-plugin`](https://github.com/expo/eas-build/tree/main/packages/cocoapods-nexus-plugin)
- Global npm configuration in **~/.npmrc**:

  ```ini ~/.npmrc
  registry=http://10.94.183.70:4873
  ```

- Global Yarn configuration in **~/.yarnrc.yml**:

  ```yml ~/.yarnrc.yml
  unsafeHttpWhitelist:
    - '*'
  npmRegistryServer: 'http://10.94.183.70:4873'
  enableImmutableInstalls: false
  ```

### iOS server images

#### `macos-sonoma-14.6-xcode-16.1` (`latest`, `sdk-52`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.6
- Xcode 16.1 (16B40)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.33
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.12.3
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.225.0
- CocoaPods 1.16.0
- Ruby 3.2
- node-gyp 10.2.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.6-xcode-16.0`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.6
- Xcode 16.0 (16A242d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.27
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.10.0
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.222.0
- CocoaPods 1.15.2
- Ruby 3.2
- node-gyp 10.2.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.5-xcode-15.4` (`sdk-51`, `sdk-50`, `sdk-49`)

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.5
- Xcode 15.4 (15F31d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.1.13
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 9.3.0
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.220.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.1.0

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-sonoma-14.4-xcode-15.3`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Sonoma 14.4.1
- Xcode 15.3 (15E204a)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.35
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 8.14.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.219.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.2`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.2 (15C500b)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.23
- Yarn 1.22.21
- pnpm 8.14.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.219.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.1`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.1 (15C65)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.12.1
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.217.0
- CocoaPods 1.14.3
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

#### `macos-ventura-13.6-xcode-15.0`

<Collapsible summary="Details">

- macOS Ventura 13.6
- Xcode 15.0 (15A240d)
- Node.js 18.18.0
- Bun 1.0.14
- Yarn 1.22.19
- pnpm 8.7.6
- npm 9.8.1
- fastlane 2.216.0
- CocoaPods 1.13.0
- Ruby 2.7
- node-gyp 10.0.1

</Collapsible>

### Supported Xcode versions

We aim to support all stable Xcode releases that allow you to submit your app to the App Store Connect when used during the build process.

This usually means that we support the latest stable Xcode version and the previous one (until the new [minimal Xcode version requirement](https://developer.apple.com/news/upcoming-requirements/?id=04292024a) is introduced by Apple).
