docs/pages/build-reference/simulators.mdx, before:

---
title: Build for iOS Simulators
description: Learn how to configure and install build for iOS simulators when using EAS Build.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';

Running a build of your app on an iOS Simulator is useful. You can configure the build profile and install the build automatically on the simulator. This provides a standalone (independent of Expo Go) version of the app running without needing to deploy to TestFlight or even having an Apple Developer account.

## Configuring a profile to build for simulators

To install a build of your app on an iOS Simulator, modify the build profile in [**eas.json**](/build/eas-json/) and set the `ios.simulator` value to `true`:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "preview": {
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    },
    "production": {}
  }
}
```

Now, execute the command as shown below to run the build:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build -p ios --profile preview']} />

Remember that a profile can be named whatever you like. In the above example, it is called `preview`. However, you can call it `local`, `simulator`, or whatever makes the most sense.

## Installing build on the simulator

> If you haven't installed or run the iOS Simulator before, follow the [iOS Simulator guide](/workflow/ios-simulator) before proceeding.

Once your build is completed, the CLI will prompt you to automatically download and install it on the iOS Simulator. When prompted, press <kbd>Y</kbd> to directly install it on the simulator.

In case you have multiple builds, you can also run the `eas build:run` command at any time to download a specific build and automatically install it on the iOS Simulator:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:run -p ios']} />

The command also shows a list of available builds of your project. You can select the build to install on the simulator from this list. Each build in the list has a build ID, the time elapsed since the build creation, the build number, the version number, and the git commit information. The list also displays invalid builds if a project has any.

For example, the image below lists two previous builds of a project:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Running eas build:run command shows a list of available builds in a project."
  src="/static/images/eas-build/eas-build-run-on-ios.png"
/>

When the build's installation is complete, it will appear on the home screen. If it's a development build, open a terminal window and start the development server using `npx expo start --dev-client`.

### Running the latest build

Pass the `--latest` flag to the `eas build:run` command to download and install the latest build on the iOS Simulator:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:run -p ios --latest']} />

Commit message:

[docs] Update instances of `--dev-client` for SDK 48 and lower

docs/pages/build-reference/simulators.mdx, after:

---
title: Build for iOS Simulators
description: Learn how to configure and install build for iOS simulators when using EAS Build.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';

Running a build of your app on an iOS Simulator is useful. You can configure the build profile and install the build automatically on the simulator. This provides a standalone (independent of Expo Go) version of the app running without needing to deploy to TestFlight or even having an Apple Developer account.

## Configuring a profile to build for simulators

To install a build of your app on an iOS Simulator, modify the build profile in [**eas.json**](/build/eas-json/) and set the `ios.simulator` value to `true`:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "preview": {
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    },
    "production": {}
  }
}
```

Now, execute the command as shown below to run the build:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build -p ios --profile preview']} />

Remember that a profile can be named whatever you like. In the above example, it is called `preview`. However, you can call it `local`, `simulator`, or whatever makes the most sense.

## Installing build on the simulator

> If you haven't installed or run the iOS Simulator before, follow the [iOS Simulator guide](/workflow/ios-simulator) before proceeding.

Once your build is completed, the CLI will prompt you to automatically download and install it on the iOS Simulator. When prompted, press <kbd>Y</kbd> to directly install it on the simulator.

In case you have multiple builds, you can also run the `eas build:run` command at any time to download a specific build and automatically install it on the iOS Simulator:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:run -p ios']} />

The command also shows a list of available builds of your project. You can select the build to install on the simulator from this list. Each build in the list has a build ID, the time elapsed since the build creation, the build number, the version number, and the git commit information. The list also displays invalid builds if a project has any.

For example, the image below lists two previous builds of a project:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Running eas build:run command shows a list of available builds in a project."
  src="/static/images/eas-build/eas-build-run-on-ios.png"
/>

When the build's installation is complete, it will appear on the home screen. If it's a development build, open a terminal window and start the development server by running the command `npx expo start`. For SDK 48 and lower, use the `--dev-client` flag with the command.

### Running the latest build

Pass the `--latest` flag to the `eas build:run` command to download and install the latest build on the iOS Simulator:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:run -p ios --latest']} />
