docs/pages/preview/custom-build-config-schema.mdx, before:

---
title: EAS Build custom builds config schema
description: A reference of configuration options for custom workflows with EAS Build.
hideFromSearch: true
maxHeadingDepth: 5
---

Creating custom workflows for EAS Build helps customize the build process for your project.

## YAML syntax for workflows

Workflow files are stored inside the **.eas/build** directory path. They use YAML syntax and must have a `.yml` or `.yaml` file extension. If you are new to YAML or want to learn more about the syntax, see [Learn YAML in Y minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/).

## `build`

Defined to describe a custom workflow. All config options to create a workflow are specified under it.

### `name`

The name of your workflow that is used to identify the workflow in the build logs. EAS Build uses this property to display the name of your workflow in the dashboard.

For example, the workflow's name is `Run tests`:

```yaml
build:
  # @info #
  name: Run tests
  # @end #
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
```

### `steps`

Steps are used to describe a list of actions either in the form of commands or function calls. These actions are executed when a workflow runs on EAS Build. You can define single or multiple steps in a workflow. However, it is **required** to define at least one step per workflow.

Each step is configured with the following properties:

#### `steps[].run`

The `run` key is used to trigger a set of instructions. For example, a `run` key is used to install dependencies using the `npm install` command:

```yaml
build:
  name: Install npm dependencies
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    # @end #
```

You can also use `steps[].run` to execute single or multiline shell commands:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run inline shell commands
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run: echo "Hello world"
    - run: |
        echo "Multiline"
        echo "bash commands"
    # @end #
```

#### Use a single step

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will run a single command to install npm dependencies:

```yaml
build:
  name: Install npm dependencies
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    # @end #
```

> **Note:** `-` before `run` counts as indentation.

#### Use multiple steps

When multiple `steps` are defined, they are executed sequentially. For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will first run a single command to install npm dependencies and then run a command to run tests:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run tests
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    - run:
        name: Run tests
        command: |
          echo "Running tests..."
          npm test
    # @end #
```

#### `steps[].run.name`

The name that is used in build logs to display the name of the step.

#### `steps[].run.command`

The `command` defines a custom shell command to run when a step is executed. It is **required** to define a command for each step. It can be a multiline shell command:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run tests
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Run tests
        # @info #
        command: |
          echo "Running tests..."
          npm test
        # @end #
```

#### `steps[].run.working_directory`

The `working_directory` is used to define an existing directory from the project's root directory. After an existing path is defined in a step, using it changes the current directory for that step. For example, a step is created to list all the assets inside the **assets** directory, which is a directory in your Expo project. The `working_directory` is set to `assets`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: List assets
        # @info #
        working_directory: assets
        # @end #
        command: ls -la
```

#### `steps[].run.shell`

Used to define the default executable shell for a step. For example, the step's shell is set to `/bin/sh`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        # @info #
        shell: /bin/sh
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Steps can use another shell"
          ps -p $$
```

#### `steps[].run.inputs`

Input values are provided to a step. For example, you can use `input` to provide a value:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Say Hi
        # @info #
        inputs:
          name: Expo
        # @end #
        command: echo "Hi, ${ inputs.name }!"
```

#### `steps[].run.outputs`

An output value is expected during a step. For example, a step has an output value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce output
        # @info #
        outputs: [value]
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Producing output for another step"
          set-output value "Output from another step..."
```

#### `steps[].run.outputs.required`

An output value can use a boolean to indicate if the output value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required output value:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce another output
        id: id456
        # @info #
        outputs:
          - required_param
          - name: optional_param
            required: false
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Producing more output"
          set-output required_param "abc 123 456"
```

#### `steps[].run.id`

Defining an `id` for a step allows:

- Calling the same function that produces one or more outputs multiple times
- Using the output from one step to another

#### Call the same function one or more times

For example, the following function generates a random number:

```yaml
functions:
  random:
    name: Generate random number
    outputs: [value]
    command: set-output value `random_number`
```

In a workflow, let's use the `random` function to generate two random numbers and print them:

```yaml
build:
  name: Functions Demo
  steps:
    - random:
        id: random_1
    - random:
        id: random_2
    - run:
        name: Print random numbers
        inputs:
          random_1: ${ steps.random_1.value }
          random_2: ${ steps.random_2.value }
        command: |
          echo "${ inputs.random_1 }"
          echo "${ inputs.random_2 }"
```

#### Use output from one step to another

For example, the following workflow demonstrates how to use output from one step to another:

```yaml
build:
  name: Outputs demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce output
        id: id123 # <---- !!!
        outputs: [foo]
        command: |
          echo "Producing output for another step"
          set-output foo bar
    - run:
        name: Use output from another step
        inputs:
          foo: ${ steps.id123.foo }
        command: |
          echo "foo = \"${ inputs.foo }\""
```

## `functions`

Defined to describe a reusable function that can be used in a workflow. All config options to create a function are specified with the following properties:

### `functions.[function_name]`

The `[function_name]` is the name of a function that you define to identify it in the `build.steps`. For example, you can define a function with the name `greetings`:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```yaml
functions:
  # @info #
  greetings:
  # @end #
    name: Say Hi!
```

### `functions.[function_name].name`

The name that is used in build logs to display the name of the function. For example, a function with the display name `Say Hi!`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    # @info #
    name: Say Hi!
    # @end #
```

{/* Note: (aman) Commenting this out since it's not implemented yet. */}
{/* `platforms` */}
{/* Name of the platform that a specific function should get executed. `linux` is used for Android and `darwin` for iOS. If not specified, the function is executed for both platforms when the appropriate build runs for each platform. */}

### `functions.[function_name].inputs`

Input values are provided to a function.

#### `inputs[].name`

The name of the input value. It is used as an identifier to access the input value such as in bash command interpolation.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      # @info #
      - name: name
      # @end #
        default_value: Hello world
    command: echo "${ inputs.name }!"
```

#### `inputs[].required`

Boolean to indicate if the input value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required value:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        # @info #
        required: false
        # @end #
```

#### `inputs[].default_value`

You can use `default_value` to provide one default input. For example, a function has a default value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        # @info #
        default_value: Hello world
        # @end #
```

#### `inputs[].allowed_values`

You can use `allowed_values` to provide multiple values in an array. For example, a function has multiple allowed values:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        default_value: Hello world
        # @info #
        allowed_values: [Hi, Hello, Hey]
        # @end #
```

#### Multiple input values

Multiple input values can be provided to a function.

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    inputs:
      - name: name
        default_value: Expo
      - name: greeting
        default_value: Hi
        allowed_values: [Hi, Hello]
    # @end #
    command: echo "${ inputs.greeting }, ${ inputs.name }!"
```

### `functions.[function_name].outputs`

An output value is expected from a function. For example, a function has an output value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    outputs: [value]
    # @end #
    command: set-output value "Hello world"
```

#### `outputs[].name`

The name of the output value. It is used as an identifier to access the output value in another step:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    outputs:
      # @info #
      - name: name
      # @end #
```

#### `outputs[].required`

Boolean to indicate if the output value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required output value:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    outputs:
      - name: value
        # @info #
        required: false
        # @end #
```

### `functions.[function_name].command`

Used to define the command to run when a function is executed. It is **required** to define a command for each reusable function. For example, the command `echo "Hello world"` is used to print a message:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    command: echo "Hi!"
    # @end #
```

### `functions.[function_name].shell`

Used to define the default executable shell for a step where a function is executed. For example, the step's shell is set to `/bin/sh`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    shell: /bin/sh
    # @end #
    command: echo "Hi!"
```

## `import`

A config file path list used to import functions from other config files. Imported files cannot have the `build` section.

For example, the following workflow imports two files and calls two imported functions - `say_hi` and `say_bye`.

```yaml workflow.yml
import:
  - common-functions.yml
  - another-file.yml

build:
  steps:
    - say_hi
    - say_bye
```

```yaml common-functions.yml
functions:
  say_hi:
    name: Say Hi!
    command: echo "Hi!"
```

```yaml another-file.yml
functions:
  say_bye:
    name: Say bye :(
    command: echo "Bye!"
```

## Functions

### Built-in EAS functions

EAS provides a built-in reusable function called `upload_artifact` that you can use in a workflow without defining the function definition.

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will upload an artifact to the EAS servers:

```yaml upload.yml
build:
  name: Upload artifacts
  steps:
    - eas/upload_artifact:
        name: Upload application archive
        inputs:
          path: fixtures/app-debug.apk
    - eas/upload_artifact:
        name: Upload build artifact
        inputs:
          type: build-artifact
          path: assets/icon.png
```

> **info** **Tip:** Any function that is built-in and provided by EAS must start with the prefix `eas/`.

The `eas/upload_artifact` function has the following properties

| Property      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | The name of the step in the reusable function that shows in the build logs. |
| `inputs`      | Requires input providers (such as `path` or `type`) to be defined.          |
| `inputs.path` | **Required**. The path to the artifact that is uploaded to the EAS servers. |
| `inputs.type` | The type of artifact that is uploaded to the EAS servers.                   |

### Use a reusable function in a `build`

For example, a workflow with the following reusable function contains a single command to print a message that is echoed.

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    - name: name
      default_value: Hello world
    inputs: [value]
    command: echo "${ inputs.name }, { inputs.value }"
```

The above function can be used in a `build` as follows:

```yaml
build:
  name: Functions Demo
  steps:
    # @info #
    - greetings:
        inputs:
          value: Expo
    # @end #
```

> **info** **Tip:** `build.steps` can execute multiple reusable `functions` sequentially.

## Override values in a `build`

You can override values for following properties:

- `working_directory`
- `name`
- `shell`

For example, a reusable function called `list_files`:

```yaml
functions:
  # @info #
  list_files:
    name: List files
    command: ls -la
  # @end #
```

When `list_files` is called in a workflow, it lists all files in the root directory of a project:

```yaml
build:
  name: List files
  # @info #
  steps:
    - list_files
  # @end #
```

You can use the `working_directory` property to override the behavior in the function call to list the files in a different directory by specifying the path to that directory:

```yaml
build:
  name: List files
    steps:
      # @info #
      - list_files:
        working_directory: /a/b/c
      # @end #
```

Commit message:

[docs] custom builds - document supported_platforms

docs/pages/preview/custom-build-config-schema.mdx, after:

---
title: EAS Build custom builds config schema
description: A reference of configuration options for custom workflows with EAS Build.
hideFromSearch: true
maxHeadingDepth: 5
---

Creating custom workflows for EAS Build helps customize the build process for your project.

## YAML syntax for workflows

Workflow files are stored inside the **.eas/build** directory path. They use YAML syntax and must have a `.yml` or `.yaml` file extension. If you are new to YAML or want to learn more about the syntax, see [Learn YAML in Y minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/).

## `build`

Defined to describe a custom workflow. All config options to create a workflow are specified under it.

### `name`

The name of your workflow that is used to identify the workflow in the build logs. EAS Build uses this property to display the name of your workflow in the dashboard.

For example, the workflow's name is `Run tests`:

```yaml
build:
  # @info #
  name: Run tests
  # @end #
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
```

### `steps`

Steps are used to describe a list of actions either in the form of commands or function calls. These actions are executed when a workflow runs on EAS Build. You can define single or multiple steps in a workflow. However, it is **required** to define at least one step per workflow.

Each step is configured with the following properties:

#### `steps[].run`

The `run` key is used to trigger a set of instructions. For example, a `run` key is used to install dependencies using the `npm install` command:

```yaml
build:
  name: Install npm dependencies
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    # @end #
```

You can also use `steps[].run` to execute single or multiline shell commands:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run inline shell commands
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run: echo "Hello world"
    - run: |
        echo "Multiline"
        echo "bash commands"
    # @end #
```

#### Use a single step

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will run a single command to install npm dependencies:

```yaml
build:
  name: Install npm dependencies
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    # @end #
```

> **Note:** `-` before `run` counts as indentation.

#### Use multiple steps

When multiple `steps` are defined, they are executed sequentially. For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will first run a single command to install npm dependencies and then run a command to run tests:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run tests
  steps:
    # @info #
    - run:
        name: Install dependencies
        command: npm install
    - run:
        name: Run tests
        command: |
          echo "Running tests..."
          npm test
    # @end #
```

#### `steps[].run.name`

The name that is used in build logs to display the name of the step.

#### `steps[].run.command`

The `command` defines a custom shell command to run when a step is executed. It is **required** to define a command for each step. It can be a multiline shell command:

```yaml
build:
  name: Run tests
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Run tests
        # @info #
        command: |
          echo "Running tests..."
          npm test
        # @end #
```

#### `steps[].run.working_directory`

The `working_directory` is used to define an existing directory from the project's root directory. After an existing path is defined in a step, using it changes the current directory for that step. For example, a step is created to list all the assets inside the **assets** directory, which is a directory in your Expo project. The `working_directory` is set to `assets`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: List assets
        # @info #
        working_directory: assets
        # @end #
        command: ls -la
```

#### `steps[].run.shell`

Used to define the default executable shell for a step. For example, the step's shell is set to `/bin/sh`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        # @info #
        shell: /bin/sh
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Steps can use another shell"
          ps -p $$
```

#### `steps[].run.inputs`

Input values are provided to a step. For example, you can use `input` to provide a value:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Say Hi
        # @info #
        inputs:
          name: Expo
        # @end #
        command: echo "Hi, ${ inputs.name }!"
```

#### `steps[].run.outputs`

An output value is expected during a step. For example, a step has an output value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce output
        # @info #
        outputs: [value]
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Producing output for another step"
          set-output value "Output from another step..."
```

#### `steps[].run.outputs.required`

An output value can use a boolean to indicate if the output value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required output value:

```yaml
build:
  name: Demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce another output
        id: id456
        # @info #
        outputs:
          - required_param
          - name: optional_param
            required: false
        # @end #
        command: |
          echo "Producing more output"
          set-output required_param "abc 123 456"
```

#### `steps[].run.id`

Defining an `id` for a step allows:

- Calling the same function that produces one or more outputs multiple times
- Using the output from one step to another

#### Call the same function one or more times

For example, the following function generates a random number:

```yaml
functions:
  random:
    name: Generate random number
    outputs: [value]
    command: set-output value `random_number`
```

In a workflow, let's use the `random` function to generate two random numbers and print them:

```yaml
build:
  name: Functions Demo
  steps:
    - random:
        id: random_1
    - random:
        id: random_2
    - run:
        name: Print random numbers
        inputs:
          random_1: ${ steps.random_1.value }
          random_2: ${ steps.random_2.value }
        command: |
          echo "${ inputs.random_1 }"
          echo "${ inputs.random_2 }"
```

#### Use output from one step to another

For example, the following workflow demonstrates how to use output from one step to another:

```yaml
build:
  name: Outputs demo
  steps:
    - run:
        name: Produce output
        id: id123 # <---- !!!
        outputs: [foo]
        command: |
          echo "Producing output for another step"
          set-output foo bar
    - run:
        name: Use output from another step
        inputs:
          foo: ${ steps.id123.foo }
        command: |
          echo "foo = \"${ inputs.foo }\""
```

## `functions`

Defined to describe a reusable function that can be used in a workflow. All config options to create a function are specified with the following properties:

### `functions.[function_name]`

The `[function_name]` is the name of a function that you define to identify it in the `build.steps`. For example, you can define a function with the name `greetings`:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```yaml
functions:
  # @info #
  greetings:
  # @end #
    name: Say Hi!
```

### `functions.[function_name].name`

The name that is used in build logs to display the name of the function. For example, a function with the display name `Say Hi!`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    # @info #
    name: Say Hi!
    # @end #
```

{/* Note: (aman) Commenting this out since it's not implemented yet. */}
{/* `platforms` */}
{/* Name of the platform that a specific function should get executed. `linux` is used for Android and `darwin` for iOS. If not specified, the function is executed for both platforms when the appropriate build runs for each platform. */}

### `functions.[function_name].inputs`

Input values are provided to a function.

#### `inputs[].name`

The name of the input value. It is used as an identifier to access the input value such as in bash command interpolation.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      # @info #
      - name: name
      # @end #
        default_value: Hello world
    command: echo "${ inputs.name }!"
```

#### `inputs[].required`

Boolean to indicate if the input value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required value:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        # @info #
        required: false
        # @end #
```

#### `inputs[].default_value`

You can use `default_value` to provide one default input. For example, a function has a default value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        # @info #
        default_value: Hello world
        # @end #
```

#### `inputs[].allowed_values`

You can use `allowed_values` to provide multiple values in an array. For example, a function has multiple allowed values:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    inputs:
      - name: name
        default_value: Hello world
        # @info #
        allowed_values: [Hi, Hello, Hey]
        # @end #
```

#### Multiple input values

Multiple input values can be provided to a function.

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    inputs:
      - name: name
        default_value: Expo
      - name: greeting
        default_value: Hi
        allowed_values: [Hi, Hello]
    # @end #
    command: echo "${ inputs.greeting }, ${ inputs.name }!"
```

### `functions.[function_name].outputs`

An output value is expected from a function. For example, a function has an output value of `Hello world`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    outputs: [value]
    # @end #
    command: set-output value "Hello world"
```

#### `outputs[].name`

The name of the output value. It is used as an identifier to access the output value in another step:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    outputs:
      # @info #
      - name: name
      # @end #
```

#### `outputs[].required`

Boolean to indicate if the output value is required or not. For example, a function does not have a required output value:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    outputs:
      - name: value
        # @info #
        required: false
        # @end #
```

### `functions.[function_name].command`

Used to define the command to run when a function is executed. It is **required** to define a command for each reusable function. For example, the command `echo "Hello world"` is used to print a message:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    command: echo "Hi!"
    # @end #
```

### `functions.[function_name].shell`

Used to define the default executable shell for a step where a function is executed. For example, the step's shell is set to `/bin/sh`:

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    # @info #
    shell: /bin/sh
    # @end #
    command: echo "Hi!"
```

### `functions.[function_name].supported_platforms`

Used to define the supported platforms for a function. Defaults to all platforms. Allowed platforms: `darwin`, `linux`.

For example, the function's supported platform is `darwin` (macOS):

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    name: Say Hi!
    supported_platforms: [darwin]
    command: echo "Hi!"
```

## `import`

A config file path list used to import functions from other config files. Imported files cannot have the `build` section.

For example, the following workflow imports two files and calls two imported functions - `say_hi` and `say_bye`.

```yaml workflow.yml
import:
  - common-functions.yml
  - another-file.yml

build:
  steps:
    - say_hi
    - say_bye
```

```yaml common-functions.yml
functions:
  say_hi:
    name: Say Hi!
    command: echo "Hi!"
```

```yaml another-file.yml
functions:
  say_bye:
    name: Say bye :(
    command: echo "Bye!"
```

## Functions

### Built-in EAS functions

EAS provides a built-in reusable function called `upload_artifact` that you can use in a workflow without defining the function definition.

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will upload an artifact to the EAS servers:

```yaml upload.yml
build:
  name: Upload artifacts
  steps:
    - eas/upload_artifact:
        name: Upload application archive
        inputs:
          path: fixtures/app-debug.apk
    - eas/upload_artifact:
        name: Upload build artifact
        inputs:
          type: build-artifact
          path: assets/icon.png
```

> **info** **Tip:** Any function that is built-in and provided by EAS must start with the prefix `eas/`.

The `eas/upload_artifact` function has the following properties

| Property      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | The name of the step in the reusable function that shows in the build logs. |
| `inputs`      | Requires input providers (such as `path` or `type`) to be defined.          |
| `inputs.path` | **Required**. The path to the artifact that is uploaded to the EAS servers. |
| `inputs.type` | The type of artifact that is uploaded to the EAS servers.                   |

### Use a reusable function in a `build`

For example, a workflow with the following reusable function contains a single command to print a message that is echoed.

```yaml
functions:
  greetings:
    - name: name
      default_value: Hello world
    inputs: [value]
    command: echo "${ inputs.name }, { inputs.value }"
```

The above function can be used in a `build` as follows:

```yaml
build:
  name: Functions Demo
  steps:
    # @info #
    - greetings:
        inputs:
          value: Expo
    # @end #
```

> **info** **Tip:** `build.steps` can execute multiple reusable `functions` sequentially.

## Override values in a `build`

You can override values for following properties:

- `working_directory`
- `name`
- `shell`

For example, a reusable function called `list_files`:

```yaml
functions:
  # @info #
  list_files:
    name: List files
    command: ls -la
  # @end #
```

When `list_files` is called in a workflow, it lists all files in the root directory of a project:

```yaml
build:
  name: List files
  # @info #
  steps:
    - list_files
  # @end #
```

You can use the `working_directory` property to override the behavior in the function call to list the files in a different directory by specifying the path to that directory:

```yaml
build:
  name: List files
    steps:
      # @info #
      - list_files:
        working_directory: /a/b/c
      # @end #
```
