packages/expo-dev-menu/README.md, before:

# 📦 expo-dev-menu

Expo/React Native module to add developer menu to Debug builds of your application. This package is intended to be included in your project through [`expo-dev-client`](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction/#what-is-an-expo-dev-client).

## Documentation

You can find more information in the [Expo documentation](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction).

## Contributing

The `expo-dev-menu` repository consists of two different parts, the exported package, which includes the native functions, located in the `android`, `ios` and `src` folders and the Dev Menu interface, located under the `app` folder.

Local development is usually done through [`bare-expo`](/apps/bare-expo).

First, make sure to `yarn` and `yarn start` in `expo-dev-menu` which will add the port for the dev menu packager to [`dev-menu-packager-host`](./assets/dev-menu-packager-host`). This is bundled into the native code in `bare-expo` so need to be done first.

To use `dev-client` when running `bare-expo` on Android, open [MainApplication.java](/apps/bare-expo/android/app/src/main/java/dev/expo/payments/MainApplication.java) and set the `USE_DEV_CLIENT` value to `true`.

```diff
- static final boolean USE_DEV_CLIENT = false;
+ static final boolean USE_DEV_CLIENT = true;
```

To use `dev-client` when running `bare-expo` on iOS, open [AppDelegate.mm](/apps/bare-expo/ios/BareExpo/AppDelegate.mm) and set the `USE_DEV_CLIENT` value to `YES`.

```diff
- BOOL useDevClient = NO;
+ BOOL useDevClient = YES;
```

Then build the native apps with `npx pod-install && yarn ios` or `yarn android`.

### Making JavaScript changes inside the `app` folder

To update the JavaScript code inside the `app` folder, you need to run the `dev-menu` bundler locally.

1. Navigate to the `dev-menu` package: `cd packages/expo-dev-menu`
2. Start the Metro bundler: `yarn start`
3. To use your local bundler on Android, open [DevMenuManager.kt](/packages/expo-dev-menu/android/src/debug/java/expo/modules/devmenu/DevMenuManager.kt) and set `useDeveloperSupport` to `true`.

```diff
- val useDeveloperSupport = false
+ val useDeveloperSupport = true
```

4. Play with your changes on a simulator or device through `bare-expo`
5. Once you've made all the necessary changes run `yarn bundle:prod:ios && yarn bundle:prod:android` to update the embedded bundle

Commit message:

feat: support RN 0.77 in SDK 52 (#34114)
# Why

to support RN 0.77 in SDK 52


# How

picked most changes from the main branch.

# Test Plan

check-packages workflow is failing and I believe it's expected because
the bundle was built with 0.77 but CI is building it with 76.
`Fingerprint / test` job should pass after I pick
https://github.com/expo/expo/commit/e3843551b50c162eaa8374ff2789c5f270bf9da8.

Still need to update dependencies to those that support RN 0.77
~(reanimated is not yet published)~. done

I have verified bare-expo works, and I'll also verify that when
initializing an empty project, the template works with 76 and 77:

```
npx create-expo-app testing77 --template expo-template-blank@53.0.0-canary-20250114-804e26d
update react-native in package.json
remove [this](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/1ea49c4c0f0ec0dfa4255278570a4cf4e18323a4/packages/%40expo/prebuild-config/build/plugins/sdk52/ReactNative77CompatPlugin.js#L39) (line 39-43)
cd testing77
npx expo prebuild --template expo-template-bare-minimum@53.0.0-canary-20250114-804e26d --clean
then build the app
```

also tested with default template

also installed `expo-dev-client` canary to test out dev client.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [x] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

packages/expo-dev-menu/README.md, after:

# 📦 expo-dev-menu

Expo/React Native module to add developer menu to Debug builds of your application. This package is intended to be included in your project through [`expo-dev-client`](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction/#what-is-an-expo-dev-client).

## Documentation

You can find more information in the [Expo documentation](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction).

## Contributing

The `expo-dev-menu` repository consists of two different parts, the exported package, which includes the native functions, located in the `android`, `ios` and `src` folders and the Dev Menu interface, located under the `app` folder.

Local development is usually done through [`bare-expo`](/apps/bare-expo).

First, make sure to `yarn` and `yarn start` in `expo-dev-menu` which will add the port for the dev menu packager to [`dev-menu-packager-host`](./assets/dev-menu-packager-host`). This is bundled into the native code in `bare-expo` so need to be done first. When done with local development, you need to reset the contents of `dev-menu-packager-host`!

### Making JavaScript changes inside the `app` folder

To update the JavaScript code inside the `app` folder, you need to run the `dev-menu` bundler locally.

1. Navigate to the `dev-menu` package: `cd packages/expo-dev-menu`
2. Start the Metro bundler: `yarn start`
3. To use your local bundler on Android, open [DevMenuManager.kt](/packages/expo-dev-menu/android/src/debug/java/expo/modules/devmenu/DevMenuManager.kt) and set `useDeveloperSupport` to `true`.

```diff
- val useDeveloperSupport = false
+ val useDeveloperSupport = true
```

4. Play with your changes on a simulator or device through `bare-expo`
5. Once you've made all the necessary changes run `yarn bundle:prod:ios && yarn bundle:prod:android` to update the embedded bundle
