docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/calendar.mdx, before:

---
title: Calendar
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-calendar'
packageName: 'expo-calendar'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';

`expo-calendar` provides an API for interacting with the device's system calendars, events, reminders, and associated records.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-calendar` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-calendar",
        {
          "calendarPermission": "The app needs to access your calendar."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'calendarPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSCalendarsUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your calendar"',
    },
    {
      name: 'remindersPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSRemindersUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your reminders"',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-calendar` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-calendar#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Calendar usage' dependencies={['expo-calendar']}>

```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, View, Text, Button, Platform } from 'react-native';
import * as Calendar from 'expo-calendar';

export default function App() {
  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      const { status } = await Calendar.requestCalendarPermissionsAsync();
      if (status === 'granted') {
        const calendars = await Calendar.getCalendarsAsync(Calendar.EntityTypes.EVENT);
        console.log('Here are all your calendars:');
        console.log({ calendars });
      }
    })();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Calendar Module Example</Text>
      <Button title="Create a new calendar" onPress={createCalendar} />
    </View>
  );
}

async function getDefaultCalendarSource() {
  const defaultCalendar = await Calendar.getDefaultCalendarAsync();
  return defaultCalendar.source;
}

async function createCalendar() {
  const defaultCalendarSource =
    Platform.OS === 'ios'
      ? await getDefaultCalendarSource()
      : { isLocalAccount: true, name: 'Expo Calendar' };
  const newCalendarID = await Calendar.createCalendarAsync({
    title: 'Expo Calendar',
    color: 'blue',
    entityType: Calendar.EntityTypes.EVENT,
    sourceId: defaultCalendarSource.id,
    source: defaultCalendarSource,
    name: 'internalCalendarName',
    ownerAccount: 'personal',
    accessLevel: Calendar.CalendarAccessLevel.OWNER,
  });
  console.log(`Your new calendar ID is: ${newCalendarID}`);
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'space-around',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as Calendar from 'expo-calendar';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-calendar" apiName="Calendar" />

## Permissions

### Android

You must add the following permissions to your **app.json** inside the [`expo.android.permissions`](/versions/latest/config/app/#permissions) array.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_CALENDAR', 'WRITE_CALENDAR']} />

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions permissions={['NSCalendarsUsageDescription', 'NSRemindersUsageDescription']} />

Commit message:

Add description for Barometer, Battery, Blur View, Brightness, Build Properties, Calendar

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/calendar.mdx, after:

---
title: Calendar
description: A library that provides an API for interacting with the device's system calendars, events, reminders, and associated records.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-calendar'
packageName: 'expo-calendar'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';

`expo-calendar` provides an API for interacting with the device's system calendars, events, reminders, and associated records.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-calendar` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-calendar",
        {
          "calendarPermission": "The app needs to access your calendar."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'calendarPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSCalendarsUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your calendar"',
    },
    {
      name: 'remindersPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSRemindersUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your reminders"',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-calendar` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-calendar#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Calendar usage' dependencies={['expo-calendar']}>

```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, View, Text, Button, Platform } from 'react-native';
import * as Calendar from 'expo-calendar';

export default function App() {
  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      const { status } = await Calendar.requestCalendarPermissionsAsync();
      if (status === 'granted') {
        const calendars = await Calendar.getCalendarsAsync(Calendar.EntityTypes.EVENT);
        console.log('Here are all your calendars:');
        console.log({ calendars });
      }
    })();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Calendar Module Example</Text>
      <Button title="Create a new calendar" onPress={createCalendar} />
    </View>
  );
}

async function getDefaultCalendarSource() {
  const defaultCalendar = await Calendar.getDefaultCalendarAsync();
  return defaultCalendar.source;
}

async function createCalendar() {
  const defaultCalendarSource =
    Platform.OS === 'ios'
      ? await getDefaultCalendarSource()
      : { isLocalAccount: true, name: 'Expo Calendar' };
  const newCalendarID = await Calendar.createCalendarAsync({
    title: 'Expo Calendar',
    color: 'blue',
    entityType: Calendar.EntityTypes.EVENT,
    sourceId: defaultCalendarSource.id,
    source: defaultCalendarSource,
    name: 'internalCalendarName',
    ownerAccount: 'personal',
    accessLevel: Calendar.CalendarAccessLevel.OWNER,
  });
  console.log(`Your new calendar ID is: ${newCalendarID}`);
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'space-around',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as Calendar from 'expo-calendar';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-calendar" apiName="Calendar" />

## Permissions

### Android

You must add the following permissions to your **app.json** inside the [`expo.android.permissions`](/versions/latest/config/app/#permissions) array.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_CALENDAR', 'WRITE_CALENDAR']} />

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions permissions={['NSCalendarsUsageDescription', 'NSRemindersUsageDescription']} />
