docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/device.mdx, before:

---
title: Device
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-device'
packageName: 'expo-device'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-device`** provides access to system information about the physical device, such as its manufacturer and model.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-device" apiName="Device" />

## Error Codes

| Code                      | Description                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ERR_DEVICE_ROOT_DETECTION | Error code thrown for `isRootedExperimentalAsync`. This may be thrown if there's no read access to certain system files. |

Commit message:

Add description for Crypto, DateTimePicker, DeviceMotion, Document Picker, Face Detector

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/device.mdx, after:

---
title: Device
description: A universal library provides access to system information about the physical device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-device'
packageName: 'expo-device'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-device`** provides access to system information about the physical device, such as its manufacturer and model.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-device" apiName="Device" />

## Error Codes

| Code                      | Description                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ERR_DEVICE_ROOT_DETECTION | Error code thrown for `isRootedExperimentalAsync`. This may be thrown if there's no read access to certain system files. |
