docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/devicemotion.mdx, before:

---
title: DeviceMotion
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';

`DeviceMotion` from `expo-sensors` provides access to the device motion and orientation sensors. All data is presented in terms of three axes that run through a device. According to portrait orientation: X runs from left to right, Y from bottom to top and Z perpendicularly through the screen from back to front.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `DeviceMotion` from `expo-sensor` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-sensors",
        {
          "motionPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'motionPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSMotionUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion"',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-sensors` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## API

```js
import { DeviceMotion } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-device-motion" />

## Permissions

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions permissions={['NSMotionUsageDescription']} />

Commit message:

Add description for Crypto, DateTimePicker, DeviceMotion, Document Picker, Face Detector

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/devicemotion.mdx, after:

---
title: DeviceMotion
description: A library that provides access to a device's motion and orientation sensors.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';

`DeviceMotion` from `expo-sensors` provides access to the device motion and orientation sensors. All data is presented in terms of three axes that run through a device. According to portrait orientation: X runs from left to right, Y from bottom to top and Z perpendicularly through the screen from back to front.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `DeviceMotion` from `expo-sensor` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-sensors",
        {
          "motionPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'motionPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the [`NSMotionUsageDescription`](#ios) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion"',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-sensors` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## API

```js
import { DeviceMotion } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-device-motion" />

## Permissions

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions permissions={['NSMotionUsageDescription']} />
