docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/light-sensor.mdx, before:

---
title: LightSensor
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`LightSensor` from `expo-sensors` provides access to the device's light sensor to respond to illuminance changes.

<PlatformsSection android emulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Light Sensor usage' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} platforms={['android']}>

```jsx
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View, Platform } from 'react-native';
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [{ illuminance }, setData] = useState({ illuminance: 0 });

  useEffect(() => {
    _toggle();

    return () => {
      _unsubscribe();
    };
  }, []);

  const _toggle = () => {
    if (this._subscription) {
      _unsubscribe();
    } else {
      _subscribe();
    }
  };

  const _subscribe = () => {
    this._subscription = LightSensor.addListener(setData);
  };

  const _unsubscribe = () => {
    this._subscription && this._subscription.remove();
    this._subscription = null;
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.sensor}>
      <Text>Light Sensor:</Text>
      <Text>
        Illuminance: {Platform.OS === 'android' ? `${illuminance} lx` : `Only available on Android`}
      </Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <TouchableOpacity onPress={_toggle} style={styles.button}>
          <Text>Toggle</Text>
        </TouchableOpacity>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  button: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
  },
  sensor: {
    marginTop: 45,
    paddingHorizontal: 10,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-light-sensor" />

Commit message:

Add description for InAppPurchases, Intent Launcher, Keep Awake, Light Sensor

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/light-sensor.mdx, after:

---
title: LightSensor
description: A library that provides access to the device's light sensor.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`LightSensor` from `expo-sensors` provides access to the device's light sensor to respond to illuminance changes.

<PlatformsSection android emulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Light Sensor usage' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} platforms={['android']}>

```jsx
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View, Platform } from 'react-native';
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [{ illuminance }, setData] = useState({ illuminance: 0 });

  useEffect(() => {
    _toggle();

    return () => {
      _unsubscribe();
    };
  }, []);

  const _toggle = () => {
    if (this._subscription) {
      _unsubscribe();
    } else {
      _subscribe();
    }
  };

  const _subscribe = () => {
    this._subscription = LightSensor.addListener(setData);
  };

  const _unsubscribe = () => {
    this._subscription && this._subscription.remove();
    this._subscription = null;
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.sensor}>
      <Text>Light Sensor:</Text>
      <Text>
        Illuminance: {Platform.OS === 'android' ? `${illuminance} lx` : `Only available on Android`}
      </Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <TouchableOpacity onPress={_toggle} style={styles.button}>
          <Text>Toggle</Text>
        </TouchableOpacity>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  button: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
  },
  sensor: {
    marginTop: 45,
    paddingHorizontal: 10,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-light-sensor" />
