docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/navigation-bar.mdx, before:

---
title: NavigationBar
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-navigation-bar'
packageName: 'expo-navigation-bar'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-navigation-bar`** enables you to modify and observe the native navigation bar on Android devices. Due to some Android platform restrictions, parts of this API overlap with the `expo-status-bar` API.

Properties are named after style properties; visibility, position, backgroundColor, borderColor, etc.

The APIs in this package have no impact when "Gesture Navigation" is enabled on the Android device. There is currently no native Android API to detect if "Gesture Navigation" is enabled or not.

<PlatformsSection android emulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as NavigationBar from 'expo-navigation-bar';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-navigation-bar" apiName="NavigationBar" />

Commit message:

Add description for NavigationBar, NetInfo, Network, Notifications, Pedometer

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/navigation-bar.mdx, after:

---
title: NavigationBar
description: A library that provides access to various interactions with the native navigation bar on Android.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-navigation-bar'
packageName: 'expo-navigation-bar'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-navigation-bar`** enables you to modify and observe the native navigation bar on Android devices. Due to some Android platform restrictions, parts of this API overlap with the `expo-status-bar` API.

Properties are named after style properties; visibility, position, backgroundColor, borderColor, etc.

The APIs in this package have no impact when "Gesture Navigation" is enabled on the Android device. There is currently no native Android API to detect if "Gesture Navigation" is enabled or not.

<PlatformsSection android emulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as NavigationBar from 'expo-navigation-bar';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-navigation-bar" apiName="NavigationBar" />
