docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/network.mdx, before:

---
title: Network
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-network'
packageName: 'expo-network'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-network.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-network`** provides useful information about the device's network such as its IP address, MAC address, and airplane mode status.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this module requires permissions to access the network and Wi-Fi state. The permissions `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` and `ACCESS_WIFI_STATE` are added automatically.

## API

```js
import * as Network from 'expo-network';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-network" apiName="Network" />

## Error Codes

| Code                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ERR_NETWORK_IP_ADDRESS                  | On Android, there may be an unknown Wi-Fi host when trying to access `WifiManager` in `getIpAddressAsync`. On iOS, no network interfaces could be retrieved.                               |
| ERR_NETWORK_UNDEFINED_INTERFACE         | An undefined `interfaceName` was passed as an argument in `getMacAddressAsync`.                                                                                                            |
| ERR_NETWORK_SOCKET_EXCEPTION            | An error was encountered in creating or accessing the socket in `getMacAddressAsync`.                                                                                                      |
| ERR_NETWORK_INVALID_PERMISSION_INTERNET | There are invalid permissions for [`android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission#ACCESS_WIFI_STATE) in `getMacAddressAsync`. |
| ERR_NETWORK_NO_ACCESS_NETWORKINFO       | Unable to access network information                                                                                                                                                       |

Commit message:

Add description for NavigationBar, NetInfo, Network, Notifications, Pedometer

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/network.mdx, after:

---
title: Network
description: A library that provides access to the device's network such as its IP address, MAC address, and airplane mode status.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-network'
packageName: 'expo-network'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-network.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-network`** provides useful information about the device's network such as its IP address, MAC address, and airplane mode status.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this module requires permissions to access the network and Wi-Fi state. The permissions `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` and `ACCESS_WIFI_STATE` are added automatically.

## API

```js
import * as Network from 'expo-network';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-network" apiName="Network" />

## Error Codes

| Code                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ERR_NETWORK_IP_ADDRESS                  | On Android, there may be an unknown Wi-Fi host when trying to access `WifiManager` in `getIpAddressAsync`. On iOS, no network interfaces could be retrieved.                               |
| ERR_NETWORK_UNDEFINED_INTERFACE         | An undefined `interfaceName` was passed as an argument in `getMacAddressAsync`.                                                                                                            |
| ERR_NETWORK_SOCKET_EXCEPTION            | An error was encountered in creating or accessing the socket in `getMacAddressAsync`.                                                                                                      |
| ERR_NETWORK_INVALID_PERMISSION_INTERNET | There are invalid permissions for [`android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission#ACCESS_WIFI_STATE) in `getMacAddressAsync`. |
| ERR_NETWORK_NO_ACCESS_NETWORKINFO       | Unable to access network information                                                                                                                                                       |
