docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/screen-capture.mdx, before:

---
title: ScreenCapture
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-screen-capture'
packageName: 'expo-screen-capture'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-screen-capture` allows you to protect screens in your app from being captured or recorded, as well as be notified if a screenshot is taken while your app is foregrounded. The two most common reasons you may want to prevent screen capture are:

- If a screen is displaying sensitive information (password, credit card data, and so on)
- You are displaying paid content that you don't want to be recorded and shared

This is especially important on Android since the [`android.media.projection`](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/android-5.0.html#ScreenCapture) API allows third-party apps to perform screen capture or screen sharing (even if the app is in the background).

> **warning** Currently, taking screenshots on iOS cannot be prevented. This is due to underlying OS limitations.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

### Example: hook

<SnackInline label="Screen Capture hook" dependencies={["expo-screen-capture"]}>

```js
import { usePreventScreenCapture } from 'expo-screen-capture';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function ScreenCaptureExample() {
  usePreventScreenCapture();

  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>As long as this component is mounted, this screen is unrecordable!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

</SnackInline>

### Example: functions

<SnackInline label="Screen Capture functions" dependencies={["expo-screen-capture", "expo-media-library"]}>

```js
import { useEffect } from 'react';
import { Button, StyleSheet, View } from 'react-native';
import * as ScreenCapture from 'expo-screen-capture';
import * as MediaLibrary from 'expo-media-library';

export default function ScreenCaptureExample() {
  useEffect(() => {
    if (hasPermissions()) {
      const subscription = ScreenCapture.addScreenshotListener(() => {
        alert('Thanks for screenshotting my beautiful app 😊');
      });
      return () => subscription.remove();
    }
  }, []);

  const hasPermissions = async () => {
    const { status } = await MediaLibrary.requestPermissionsAsync();
    return status === 'granted';
  };

  const activate = async () => {
    await ScreenCapture.preventScreenCaptureAsync();
  };

  const deactivate = async () => {
    await ScreenCapture.allowScreenCaptureAsync();
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Activate" onPress={activate} />
      <Button title="Deactivate" onPress={deactivate} />
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as ScreenCapture from 'expo-screen-capture';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-screen-capture" apiName="ScreenCapture" />

Commit message:

Add description for Picker, Print, Random, Reanimated, rootRegisterComponent, SafeAreaContext, Screen Captuer

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/screen-capture.mdx, after:

---
title: ScreenCapture
description: A library that allows you to protect screens in your app from being captured or recorded.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-screen-capture'
packageName: 'expo-screen-capture'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-screen-capture` allows you to protect screens in your app from being captured or recorded, as well as be notified if a screenshot is taken while your app is foregrounded. The two most common reasons you may want to prevent screen capture are:

- If a screen is displaying sensitive information (password, credit card data, and so on)
- You are displaying paid content that you don't want to be recorded and shared

This is especially important on Android since the [`android.media.projection`](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/android-5.0.html#ScreenCapture) API allows third-party apps to perform screen capture or screen sharing (even if the app is in the background).

> **warning** Currently, taking screenshots on iOS cannot be prevented. This is due to underlying OS limitations.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

### Example: hook

<SnackInline label="Screen Capture hook" dependencies={["expo-screen-capture"]}>

```js
import { usePreventScreenCapture } from 'expo-screen-capture';
import React from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function ScreenCaptureExample() {
  usePreventScreenCapture();

  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
      <Text>As long as this component is mounted, this screen is unrecordable!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

</SnackInline>

### Example: functions

<SnackInline label="Screen Capture functions" dependencies={["expo-screen-capture", "expo-media-library"]}>

```js
import { useEffect } from 'react';
import { Button, StyleSheet, View } from 'react-native';
import * as ScreenCapture from 'expo-screen-capture';
import * as MediaLibrary from 'expo-media-library';

export default function ScreenCaptureExample() {
  useEffect(() => {
    if (hasPermissions()) {
      const subscription = ScreenCapture.addScreenshotListener(() => {
        alert('Thanks for screenshotting my beautiful app 😊');
      });
      return () => subscription.remove();
    }
  }, []);

  const hasPermissions = async () => {
    const { status } = await MediaLibrary.requestPermissionsAsync();
    return status === 'granted';
  };

  const activate = async () => {
    await ScreenCapture.preventScreenCaptureAsync();
  };

  const deactivate = async () => {
    await ScreenCapture.allowScreenCaptureAsync();
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Activate" onPress={activate} />
      <Button title="Deactivate" onPress={deactivate} />
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as ScreenCapture from 'expo-screen-capture';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-screen-capture" apiName="ScreenCapture" />
