docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/task-manager.mdx, before:

---
title: TaskManager
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-task-manager'
packageName: 'expo-task-manager'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';

`expo-task-manager` provides an API that allows you to manage long-running tasks, in particular those tasks that can run while your app is in the background.
Some features of this module are used by other modules under the hood. Here is a list of Expo modules that use TaskManager:

- [Location](location.mdx)
- [BackgroundFetch](background-fetch.mdx)

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration for standalone apps

### Background modes on iOS

`TaskManager` works out of the box in the Expo Go app on Android, however, on iOS, you'll need to use a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

Standalone apps need some extra configuration: on iOS, each background feature requires a special key in `UIBackgroundModes` array in your **Info.plist** file. In standalone apps this array is empty by default, so to use background features you will need to add appropriate keys to your **app.json** configuration.

Here is an example of an **app.json** configuration that enables background location and background fetch:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "ios": {
      "infoPlist": {
        "UIBackgroundModes": ["location", "fetch"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-task-manager` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-task-manager#installation-in-bare-ios-react-native-project).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Example

<SnackInline dependencies={["expo-task-manager", "expo-location"]} platforms={['android', 'ios']}>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Button, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
import * as Location from 'expo-location';

const LOCATION_TASK_NAME = 'background-location-task';

const requestPermissions = async () => {
  const { status: foregroundStatus } = await Location.requestForegroundPermissionsAsync();
  if (foregroundStatus === 'granted') {
    const { status: backgroundStatus } = await Location.requestBackgroundPermissionsAsync();
    if (backgroundStatus === 'granted') {
      await Location.startLocationUpdatesAsync(LOCATION_TASK_NAME, {
        accuracy: Location.Accuracy.Balanced,
      });
    }
  }
};

const PermissionsButton = () => (
  <View style={styles.container}>
    <Button onPress={requestPermissions} title="Enable background location" />
  </View>
);

TaskManager.defineTask(LOCATION_TASK_NAME, ({ data, error }) => {
  if (error) {
    // Error occurred - check `error.message` for more details.
    return;
  }
  if (data) {
    const { locations } = data;
    // do something with the locations captured in the background
  }
});

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */

export default PermissionsButton;
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-task-manager" apiName="TaskManager" />

Commit message:

Add description for Speech, Splash Screen, StatusBar, Store Review, System UI, Stripe, TaskManager

docs/pages/versions/v48.0.0/sdk/task-manager.mdx, after:

---
title: TaskManager
description: A library that provides support for tasks that can run in the background.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-48/packages/expo-task-manager'
packageName: 'expo-task-manager'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';

`expo-task-manager` provides an API that allows you to manage long-running tasks, in particular those tasks that can run while your app is in the background.
Some features of this module are used by other modules under the hood. Here is a list of Expo modules that use TaskManager:

- [Location](location.mdx)
- [BackgroundFetch](background-fetch.mdx)

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration for standalone apps

### Background modes on iOS

`TaskManager` works out of the box in the Expo Go app on Android, however, on iOS, you'll need to use a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

Standalone apps need some extra configuration: on iOS, each background feature requires a special key in `UIBackgroundModes` array in your **Info.plist** file. In standalone apps this array is empty by default, so to use background features you will need to add appropriate keys to your **app.json** configuration.

Here is an example of an **app.json** configuration that enables background location and background fetch:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "ios": {
      "infoPlist": {
        "UIBackgroundModes": ["location", "fetch"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-task-manager` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-task-manager#installation-in-bare-ios-react-native-project).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Example

<SnackInline dependencies={["expo-task-manager", "expo-location"]} platforms={['android', 'ios']}>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Button, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
import * as Location from 'expo-location';

const LOCATION_TASK_NAME = 'background-location-task';

const requestPermissions = async () => {
  const { status: foregroundStatus } = await Location.requestForegroundPermissionsAsync();
  if (foregroundStatus === 'granted') {
    const { status: backgroundStatus } = await Location.requestBackgroundPermissionsAsync();
    if (backgroundStatus === 'granted') {
      await Location.startLocationUpdatesAsync(LOCATION_TASK_NAME, {
        accuracy: Location.Accuracy.Balanced,
      });
    }
  }
};

const PermissionsButton = () => (
  <View style={styles.container}>
    <Button onPress={requestPermissions} title="Enable background location" />
  </View>
);

TaskManager.defineTask(LOCATION_TASK_NAME, ({ data, error }) => {
  if (error) {
    // Error occurred - check `error.message` for more details.
    return;
  }
  if (data) {
    const { locations } = data;
    // do something with the locations captured in the background
  }
});

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */

export default PermissionsButton;
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-task-manager" apiName="TaskManager" />
