docs/pages/eas/workflows/get-started.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_title: Get started
title: Get started with EAS Workflows
description: Learn how to use EAS Workflows to automate your React Native CI/CD development and release processes.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Builds, submissions, updates, and more are all a part of delivering your app to users. EAS Workflows consist of a sequence of jobs, which help you and your team get things done. With workflows, you can build your project, run end-to-end tests, submit that build to the app stores, and then run custom scripts after the submission is complete. Since each job can have prerequisites and conditionals, you can automate your and your team's CI/CD for your React Native project.

> **info** Got feedback or feature requests? Send us an email at workflows@expo.dev.

<Collapsible summary="How do workflows compare to other CI services?">

EAS Workflows are designed to help you and your team release your app. It comes preconfigured with pre-packaged job types that can build, submit, update, run Maestro tests, and more. All job types run on EAS, so you'll only have to manage one set of YAML files, and all the artifacts from your job runs will appear on [expo.dev](https://expo.dev/).

Other CI services, like CircleCI and GitHub Actions, are more generalized and have the ability to do more than workflows. However, those services also require you to understand more about the implementation of each job. While that is necessary in some cases, workflows help you get common tasks done quickly by pre-packaging the most essential types of jobs for app developers. In addition, workflows are designed to provide you with the fastest possible cloud machine for the task at hand, and we're constantly updating those for you.

EAS Workflows are great for operations related to your Expo apps, while other CI/CD services will provide a better experience for other types of workflows.

</Collapsible>

## Set up your project

If you haven't already, you'll need to create a project and sync it with EAS:

<Collapsible summary="Create a project and sync it with EAS">
  You can create a new project with the following command:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app@latest']} />

Once you've created the project, login with your account:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest login']} />

Finally, link the project you have locally with EAS:

  <Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest init']} />
</Collapsible>

Then, create a directory named **.eas/workflows** at the root of your project with a YAML file inside of it. For example: **.eas/workflows/hello-world.yml**.

## Configure your project

To enable workflows to run on events from GitHub, you'll need to install Expo's GitHub app and connect it to your project:

- Navigate to your project's [GitHub settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/%5Baccount%5D/projects/%5BprojectName%5D/github)
- Follow the UI to install the GitHub app. Then, search for the GitHub repository that matches the Expo project and connect it.

## Write a workflow

Each workflow consists of three top-level elements:

- `name`: defines the name of the workflow. For example: "Hello World"
- `on`: defines when this workflow should be triggered. For example, when pushing a new commit to a GitHub branch.
- `jobs`: a sequence of jobs which can depend on and pass data between each other. For example: a job that runs a unit test followed by a job that builds your project into an app.

Here's an example of a workflow that prints "Hello, world":

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  Hello World:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, World"
```

Here's another example that creates and submits an iOS build of a project on every push to every branch. This is similar to running `eas build --platform ios --profile production --auto-submit`:

```yaml .eas/workflows/ios-build-and-submit.yml
name: Release iOS app

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  submit:
    needs: [build]
    type: submit
    params:
      build_id: ${{ needs.build.outputs.build_id }}
```

## Run your workflow

Once you have a workflow file and your project is connected to Expo's GitHub app, you can trigger your workflow by pushing a commit to your GitHub repository. For the workflow to run, you'll need to make sure the trigger (defined with `on`) you defined in your workflow is met.

Alternatively, you can trigger a workflow manually by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest workflow:run .eas/workflows/<your-workflow-file>.yml']} />

Once you do, you can see your workflow running on your project's [workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/workflows).

Commit message:

adds vs code ext and fixes a workflow

docs/pages/eas/workflows/get-started.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_title: Get started
title: Get started with EAS Workflows
description: Learn how to use EAS Workflows to automate your React Native CI/CD development and release processes.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Builds, submissions, updates, and more are all a part of delivering your app to users. EAS Workflows consist of a sequence of jobs, which help you and your team get things done. With workflows, you can build your project, run end-to-end tests, submit that build to the app stores, and then run custom scripts after the submission is complete. Since each job can have prerequisites and conditionals, you can automate your and your team's CI/CD for your React Native project.

<Collapsible summary="How do workflows compare to other CI services?">

EAS Workflows are designed to help you and your team release your app. It comes preconfigured with pre-packaged job types that can build, submit, update, run Maestro tests, and more. All job types run on EAS, so you'll only have to manage one set of YAML files, and all the artifacts from your job runs will appear on [expo.dev](https://expo.dev/).

Other CI services, like CircleCI and GitHub Actions, are more generalized and have the ability to do more than workflows. However, those services also require you to understand more about the implementation of each job. While that is necessary in some cases, workflows help you get common tasks done quickly by pre-packaging the most essential types of jobs for app developers. In addition, workflows are designed to provide you with the fastest possible cloud machine for the task at hand, and we're constantly updating those for you.

EAS Workflows are great for operations related to your Expo apps, while other CI/CD services will provide a better experience for other types of workflows.

</Collapsible>

## Set up your project

If you haven't already, you'll need to create a project and sync it with EAS:

<Collapsible summary="Create a project and sync it with EAS">
  You can create a new project with the following command:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app@latest']} />

Once you've created the project, login with your account:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest login']} />

Finally, link the project you have locally with EAS:

  <Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest init']} />
</Collapsible>

Then, create a directory named **.eas/workflows** at the root of your project with a YAML file inside of it. For example: **.eas/workflows/hello-world.yml**.

## Configure your project

To enable workflows to run on events from GitHub, you'll need to install Expo's GitHub app and connect it to your project:

- Navigate to your project's [GitHub settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/%5Baccount%5D/projects/%5BprojectName%5D/github)
- Follow the UI to install the GitHub app. Then, search for the GitHub repository that matches the Expo project and connect it.

## Write a workflow

Each workflow consists of three top-level elements:

- `name`: defines the name of the workflow. For example: "Hello World"
- `on`: defines when this workflow should be triggered. For example, when pushing a new commit to a GitHub branch.
- `jobs`: a sequence of jobs which can depend on and pass data between each other. For example: a job that runs a unit test followed by a job that builds your project into an app.

Here's an example of a workflow that prints "Hello, world":

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  Hello World:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, World"
```

Here's another example that creates and submits an iOS build of a project on every push to every branch. This is similar to running `eas build --platform ios --profile production --auto-submit`:

```yaml .eas/workflows/ios-build-and-submit.yml
name: Release iOS app

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  submit:
    needs: [build]
    type: submit
    params:
      build_id: ${{ needs.build.outputs.build_id }}
```

> **info**Download the [Expo VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=expo.vscode-expo-tools) to get descriptions and autocompletions for your workflow files.

## Run your workflow

Once you have a workflow file and your project is connected to Expo's GitHub app, you can trigger your workflow by pushing a commit to your GitHub repository. For the workflow to run, you'll need to make sure the trigger (defined with `on`) you defined in your workflow is met.

Alternatively, you can trigger a workflow manually by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest workflow:run .eas/workflows/<your-workflow-file>.yml']} />

Once you do, you can see your workflow running on your project's [workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/workflows).

> Got feedback or feature requests? Send us an email at workflows@expo.dev.
