docs/pages/eas/workflows/syntax.mdx, before:

---
title: Syntax for EAS Workflows
description: Reference guide for the EAS Workflows configuration file syntax.
maxHeadingDepth: 5
---

import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/custom/GithubIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

A workflow is a configurable automated process made up of one or more jobs. You must create a YAML file to define your workflow configuration.

## YAML syntax for workflows

Workflow files use YAML syntax and must have either a `.yml` or `.yaml` file extension. If you're new to YAML and want to learn more, see [Learn YAML in Y minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/).

Workflow files are located in the `.eas/workflows` directory in your project, and should be at the same level as your [**eas.json**](/eas/introduction/eas-json) file.

## `name`

The name of the workflow. This is displayed on the Expo dashboard on the workflows list page and is the title of the workflow's detail page.

```yaml
# @info #
name: My workflow
# @end #
```

## `on`

The `on` key defines which GitHub events trigger the workflow. Any workflow can be triggered with the `eas workflow:run` command, regardless of the `on` key.

### `on.push`

Runs your workflow when you push a commit to matching branches.

With the `branches` array, you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are pushed to. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']`, only push to the `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on push events to all branches.

```yaml
on:
  # @info #
  push:
    # @end #
    branches:
      - 'main'
      - 'feature/**'
      # other branches names and globs
```

### `on.pull_request`

Runs your workflow when a pull request event occurs on the matching branches.

With the `branches` array, you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are the target of the pull request. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']`, only pull requests to the `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on pull request events to all branches.

With the `types` array, you can trigger the workflow only on the specified pull request event types. For example, if you use `types: ['opened']`, only the `pull_request.opened` event (sent when a pull request is first opened) will trigger the workflow. Defaults to `['opened', 'reopened', 'synchronize']` when not provided. Supported event types:

- `opened`
- `reopened`
- `synchronize`

```yaml
on:
  # @info #
  pull_request:
    # @end #
    branches:
      - 'main'
      - 'feature/**'
      # other branch names and globs
    types:
      - 'opened'
      # other event types
```

## `jobs`

A workflow run is made up of one or more jobs.

### `jobs.<job_id>`

Each job must have an id. For example, `build` in the following YAML:

```yaml
jobs:
  # @info #
  build:
    # @end #
    # ...
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.name`

The name of the job displayed on the workflow's detail page.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    # @info #
    name: Build app
    # @end #
```

## Control flow

You can control when jobs run and what jobs must complete successfully before a job runs using the `needs` and `after` keywords. In addition, you can use the `if` keyword to control whether a job should run based on a condition.

### `jobs.<job_id>.needs`

A list of job IDs that must complete successfully before this job will run.

```yaml
jobs:
  test:
    steps:
      - uses: eas/checkout
      - uses: eas/use_npm_token
      - uses: eas/install_node_modules
      - name: tsc
        run: yarn tsc
  build:
    # @info #
    needs: [test]
    # @end #
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.after`

A list of job IDs that must complete (successfully or not) before this job will run.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
  notify:
    # @info #
    after: [build]
    # @end #
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.if`

The `if` conditional determines if a job should run.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    # @info #
    if: ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' }}
    # @end #
```

## Pre-packaged jobs

### `jobs.<job_id>.type`

Specifies the type of pre-packaged job to run. Pre-packaged jobs produce specialized UI according to the type of job on the workflow's detail page.

#### `build`

Creates an Android or iOS build of your project using [EAS Build](/build/introduction/).

```yaml
build:
  # @info #
  type: build
  # @end #
  params:
    platform: ios | android # required
    profile: string # optional, default: production
```

Build jobs can be customized so that you can execute custom commands during the build process. See [Custom builds](/custom-builds/get-started/) for more information.

#### `deploy`

Deploys your application using [EAS Hosting](/eas/hosting/introduction/).

```yaml
deploy:
  # @info #
  type: deploy
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional
  params:
    alias: string # optional
    prod: boolean # optional
```

#### `get-build`

Retrieves an existing build from EAS that matches the provided parameters.

```yaml
get-build:
  # @info #
  type: get-build
  # @end #
  params:
    platform: ios | android # optional
    profile: string # optional
    distribution: store | internal | simulator # optional
    channel: string # optional
    app_identifier: string # optional
    app_build_version: string # optional
    app_version: string # optional
    git_commit_hash: string # optional
    fingerprint_hash: string # optional
    sdk_version: string # optional
    runtime_version: string # optional
    simulator: boolean # optional
```

#### `submit`

Submits an Android or iOS build to the app store using [EAS Submit](/submit/introduction/).

```yaml
submit:
  # @info #
  type: submit
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional
  params:
    build_id: string # required
    profile: string # optional, default: production
```

#### `update`

Publishes an update using [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/).

```yaml
update:
  # @info #
  type: update
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional
  params:
    message: string # optional
    platform: string # optional - android, ios, or all
    branch: string # optional
    channel: string # optional - cannot be used with branch
```

## Custom jobs

Runs custom code and can use built-in EAS functions. Does not require a `type` field.

```yaml
custom_job:
  runs_on: linux-medium | linux-large | macos-medium | macos-large | linux-medium-nested-virtualization | linux-large-nested-virtualization # optional, default: linux-medium
  environment: production | preview | development # optional
  steps:
    # ...
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.steps`

A job contains a sequence of tasks called `steps`. Steps can run commands or use an action.

```yaml
jobs:
  custom_job:
    # @info #
    steps:
      - name: My first step
        run: echo "Hello World"
    # @end #
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.outputs`

A list of outputs for the job. Job outputs are available to all downstream jobs that depend on this job. Set outputs in a step using the `set-output` function.

```yaml
jobs:
  job_1:
    # @info #
    outputs:
      output_1: ${{ steps.step_1.outputs.test }}
    # @end #
    steps:
      - id: step_1
        run: set-output test "hello world"

  job_2:
    needs: [job_1]
    steps:
      # @info #
      - run: echo ${{ needs.job_1.outputs.output_1 }}
      # @end #
```

### Built-in EAS functions

EAS provides a set of built-in reusable functions that you can use in a workflow without defining the function definition.

#### `eas/checkout`

Checks out your project source files.

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will check out the project and list the files in the **assets** directory:

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/checkout source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/checkout function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/checkout.ts"
/>

#### `eas/install_node_modules`

Installs node modules using the package manager (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) detected based on your project. Works with monorepos.

```yaml example.yml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    # @end #
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/install_node_modules source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/install_node_modules function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/installNodeModules.ts"
/>

#### `eas/prebuild`

Runs the `expo prebuild` command using the package manager (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) detected based on your project with the command best suited for your build type and build environment.

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/prebuild
    # @end #
```

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    - uses: eas/resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials:
        id: resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/prebuild
      inputs:
        clean: false
        apple_team_id: ${{ steps.resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials.outputs.apple_team_id }}
    # @end #
```

| Property               | Type      | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`                 | -         | The name of the step in the reusable function that shows in the build logs. Defaults to `Prebuild`.                                      |
| `inputs.clean`         | `boolean` | Optional input defining whether the function should use `--clean` flag when running the command. Defaults to false                       |
| `inputs.apple_team_id` | `boolean` | Optional input defining Apple team ID which should be used when doing prebuild. It should be specified for iOS builds using credentials. |

<BoxLink
  title="eas/prebuild source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/prebuild.ts"
/>

#### `eas/send_slack_message`

Sends a specified message to a configured [Slack webhook URL](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks), which then posts it in the related Slack channel.
The message can be specified as plain text or as a [Slack Block Kit](https://api.slack.com/block-kit) message.
With both cases, you can reference build job properties and [use other steps outputs](#use-output-from-one-step-to-another) in the message for dynamic evaluation.
For example, `'Build URL: ${{ eas.job.expoBuildUrl }}'`, `Build finished with status: ${{ steps.run_fastlane.status_text }}`, `Build failed with error: ${{ steps.run_gradle.error_text }}`.
Either "message" or "payload" has to be specified, but not both.

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/send_slack_message
      # @end #
      inputs:
        message: 'This is a message to plain input URL'
        slack_hook_url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/[rest_of_hook_url]'
```

| Input            | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `message`        | `string` | The text of the message you want to send. For example, `'This is the content of the message'`.<br /> <br />**Note:** Either `message` or `payload` needs to be provided, but not both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `payload`        | `string` | The contents of the message you want to send which are defined using [Slack Block Kit](https://api.slack.com/block-kit) layout.<br /> <br />**Note:** Either `message` or `payload` needs to be provided, but not both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `slack_hook_url` | `string` | The URL of the previously configured Slack webhook URL, which will post your message to the specified channel. You can provide the plain URL like `slack_hook_url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/[rest_of_hook_url]'`, use EAS secrets like `slack_hook_url: ${{ eas.env.ANOTHER_SLACK_HOOK_URL }}`, or set the `SLACK_HOOK_URL` secret, which will serve as a default webhook URL (in this last case, there is no need to provide `slack_hook_url` input). |

<BoxLink
  title="eas/send_slack_message source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/send_slack_message function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/sendSlackMessage.ts"
/>

#### `eas/use_npm_token`

Configures node package managers (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) for use with private packages, published either to npm or a private registry.

Set `NPM_TOKEN` in your project's secrets, and this function will configure the build environment by creating **.npmrc** with the token.

```yaml example.yml
custom_job:
  name: Install private npm modules
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/use_npm_token
    # @end #
    - name: Install dependencies
      run: npm install # <---- Can now install private packages
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/use_npm_token source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/use_npm_token function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/useNpmToken.ts"
/>

Commit message:

[docs] Workflows syntax improvements (#34726)
# Why

`inputs:` is a remainder of Custom Builds.

# How

Updated docs to Workflows syntax. Added information about `maestro` job,
default environments.

docs/pages/eas/workflows/syntax.mdx, after:

---
title: Syntax for EAS Workflows
description: Reference guide for the EAS Workflows configuration file syntax.
maxHeadingDepth: 5
---

import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/custom/GithubIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

A workflow is a configurable automated process made up of one or more jobs. You must create a YAML file to define your workflow configuration.

## YAML syntax for workflows

Workflow files use YAML syntax and must have either a `.yml` or `.yaml` file extension. If you're new to YAML and want to learn more, see [Learn YAML in Y minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/).

Workflow files are located in the `.eas/workflows` directory in your project, and should be at the same level as your [**eas.json**](/eas/introduction/eas-json) file.

## `name`

The name of the workflow. This is displayed on the Expo dashboard on the workflows list page and is the title of the workflow's detail page.

```yaml
# @info #
name: My workflow
# @end #
```

## `on`

The `on` key defines which GitHub events trigger the workflow. Any workflow can be triggered with the `eas workflow:run` command, regardless of the `on` key.

### `on.push`

Runs your workflow when you push a commit to matching branches.

With the `branches` array, you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are pushed to. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']`, only push to the `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on push events to all branches.

```yaml
on:
  # @info #
  push:
    # @end #
    branches:
      - 'main'
      - 'feature/**'
      # other branches names and globs
```

### `on.pull_request`

Runs your workflow when a pull request event occurs on the matching branches.

With the `branches` array, you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are the target of the pull request. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']`, only pull requests to the `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on pull request events to all branches.

With the `types` array, you can trigger the workflow only on the specified pull request event types. For example, if you use `types: ['opened']`, only the `pull_request.opened` event (sent when a pull request is first opened) will trigger the workflow. Defaults to `['opened', 'reopened', 'synchronize']` when not provided. Supported event types:

- `opened`
- `reopened`
- `synchronize`

```yaml
on:
  # @info #
  pull_request:
    # @end #
    branches:
      - 'main'
      - 'feature/**'
      # other branch names and globs
    types:
      - 'opened'
      # other event types
```

## `jobs`

A workflow run is made up of one or more jobs.

### `jobs.<job_id>`

Each job must have an id. For example, `build` in the following YAML:

```yaml
jobs:
  # @info #
  build:
    # @end #
    # ...
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.name`

The name of the job displayed on the workflow's detail page.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    # @info #
    name: Build app
    # @end #
```

## Control flow

You can control when jobs run and what jobs must complete successfully before a job runs using the `needs` and `after` keywords. In addition, you can use the `if` keyword to control whether a job should run based on a condition.

### `jobs.<job_id>.needs`

A list of job IDs that must complete successfully before this job will run.

```yaml
jobs:
  test:
    steps:
      - uses: eas/checkout
      - uses: eas/use_npm_token
      - uses: eas/install_node_modules
      - name: tsc
        run: yarn tsc
  build:
    # @info #
    needs: [test]
    # @end #
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.after`

A list of job IDs that must complete (successfully or not) before this job will run.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
  notify:
    # @info #
    after: [build]
    # @end #
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.if`

The `if` conditional determines if a job should run.

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    # @info #
    if: ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' }}
    # @end #
```

## Pre-packaged jobs

### `jobs.<job_id>.type`

Specifies the type of pre-packaged job to run. Pre-packaged jobs produce specialized UI according to the type of job on the workflow's detail page.

#### `build`

Creates an Android or iOS build of your project using [EAS Build](/build/introduction/).

```yaml
build:
  # @info #
  type: build
  # @end #
  params:
    platform: ios | android # required
    profile: string # optional, default: production
```

Build jobs can be customized so that you can execute custom commands during the build process. See [Custom builds](/custom-builds/get-started/) for more information.

#### `deploy`

Deploys your application using [EAS Hosting](/eas/hosting/introduction/).

```yaml
deploy:
  # @info #
  type: deploy
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional, defaults to production
  params:
    alias: string # optional
    prod: boolean # optional
```

#### `get-build`

Retrieves an existing build from EAS that matches the provided parameters.

```yaml
get-build:
  # @info #
  type: get-build
  # @end #
  params:
    platform: ios | android # optional
    profile: string # optional
    distribution: store | internal | simulator # optional
    channel: string # optional
    app_identifier: string # optional
    app_build_version: string # optional
    app_version: string # optional
    git_commit_hash: string # optional
    fingerprint_hash: string # optional
    sdk_version: string # optional
    runtime_version: string # optional
    simulator: boolean # optional
```

#### `submit`

Submits an Android or iOS build to the app store using [EAS Submit](/submit/introduction/). For `environment` it uses the environment used to create build referenced in `build_id`.

```yaml
submit:
  # @info #
  type: submit
  # @end #
  params:
    build_id: string # required
    profile: string # optional, default: production
```

#### `update`

Publishes an update using [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/).

```yaml
update:
  # @info #
  type: update
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional, defaults to production
  params:
    message: string # optional
    platform: string # optional - android, ios, or all
    branch: string # optional
    channel: string # optional - cannot be used with branch
```

#### `maestro`

Runs [Maestro](https://maestro.mobile.dev/) tests on a build.

```yaml
maestro:
  # @info #
  type: maestro
  # @end #
  environment: production | preview | development # optional, defaults to preview
  image: string # optional, defaults to 'default'. See https://docs.expo.dev/build-reference/infrastructure/ for a list of available images.
  params:
    build_id: string # required
    flow_path: string | string[] # required
```

## Custom jobs

Runs custom code and can use built-in EAS functions. Does not require a `type` field.

```yaml
custom_job:
  runs_on: linux-medium | linux-large | macos-medium | macos-large | linux-medium-nested-virtualization | linux-large-nested-virtualization # optional, default: linux-medium
  environment: production | preview | development # optional, defaults to production
  image: string # optional, defaults to 'default'. See https://docs.expo.dev/build-reference/infrastructure/ for a list of available images.
  steps:
    # ...
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.steps`

A job contains a sequence of tasks called `steps`. Steps can run commands or use an action.

```yaml
jobs:
  custom_job:
    # @info #
    steps:
      - name: My first step
        run: echo "Hello World"
    # @end #
```

### `jobs.<job_id>.outputs`

A list of outputs for the job. Job outputs are available to all downstream jobs that depend on this job. Set outputs in a step using the `set-output` function.

```yaml
jobs:
  job_1:
    # @info #
    outputs:
      output_1: ${{ steps.step_1.outputs.test }}
    # @end #
    steps:
      - id: step_1
        run: set-output test "hello world"

  job_2:
    needs: [job_1]
    steps:
      # @info #
      - run: echo ${{ needs.job_1.outputs.output_1 }}
      # @end #
```

### Built-in EAS functions

EAS provides a set of built-in reusable functions that you can use in a workflow without defining the function definition.

#### `eas/checkout`

Checks out your project source files.

For example, a workflow with the following `steps` will check out the project and list the files in the **assets** directory:

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/checkout source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/checkout function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/checkout.ts"
/>

#### `eas/install_node_modules`

Installs node modules using the package manager (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) detected based on your project. Works with monorepos.

```yaml example.yml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    # @end #
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/install_node_modules source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/install_node_modules function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/installNodeModules.ts"
/>

#### `eas/prebuild`

Runs the `expo prebuild` command using the package manager (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) detected based on your project with the command best suited for your build type and build environment.

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/prebuild
    # @end #
```

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    - uses: eas/install_node_modules
    - uses: eas/resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials:
        id: resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/prebuild
      with:
        clean: false
        apple_team_id: ${{ steps.resolve_apple_team_id_from_credentials.outputs.apple_team_id }}
    # @end #
```

| Input           | Type      | Description                                                                                                                              |
| --------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clean`         | `boolean` | Optional input defining whether the function should use `--clean` flag when running the command. Defaults to false.                      |
| `apple_team_id` | `boolean` | Optional input defining Apple team ID which should be used when doing prebuild. It should be specified for iOS builds using credentials. |

<BoxLink
  title="eas/prebuild source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/prebuild function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/prebuild.ts"
/>

#### `eas/send_slack_message`

Sends a specified message to a configured [Slack webhook URL](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks), which then posts it in the related Slack channel.
The message can be specified as plain text or as a [Slack Block Kit](https://api.slack.com/block-kit) message.
With both cases, you can reference build job properties and [use other steps outputs](#use-output-from-one-step-to-another) in the message for dynamic evaluation.
For example, `'Build URL: ${{ eas.job.expoBuildUrl }}'`, `Build finished with status: ${{ steps.run_fastlane.status_text }}`, `Build failed with error: ${{ steps.run_gradle.error_text }}`.
Either "message" or "payload" has to be specified, but not both.

```yaml
custom_job:
  steps:
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/send_slack_message
      # @end #
      with:
        message: 'This is a message to plain input URL'
        slack_hook_url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/[rest_of_hook_url]'
```

| Input            | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `message`        | `string` | The text of the message you want to send. For example, `'This is the content of the message'`.<br /> <br />**Note:** Either `message` or `payload` needs to be provided, but not both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `payload`        | `string` | The contents of the message you want to send which are defined using [Slack Block Kit](https://api.slack.com/block-kit) layout.<br /> <br />**Note:** Either `message` or `payload` needs to be provided, but not both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `slack_hook_url` | `string` | The URL of the previously configured Slack webhook URL, which will post your message to the specified channel. You can provide the plain URL like `slack_hook_url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/[rest_of_hook_url]'`, use EAS secrets like `slack_hook_url: ${{ eas.env.ANOTHER_SLACK_HOOK_URL }}`, or set the `SLACK_HOOK_URL` secret, which will serve as a default webhook URL (in this last case, there is no need to provide `slack_hook_url` input). |

<BoxLink
  title="eas/send_slack_message source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/send_slack_message function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/sendSlackMessage.ts"
/>

#### `eas/use_npm_token`

Configures node package managers (bun, npm, pnpm, or Yarn) for use with private packages, published either to npm or a private registry.

Set `NPM_TOKEN` in your project's secrets, and this function will configure the build environment by creating **.npmrc** with the token.

```yaml example.yml
custom_job:
  name: Install private npm modules
  steps:
    - uses: eas/checkout
    # @info #
    - uses: eas/use_npm_token
    # @end #
    - name: Install dependencies
      run: npm install # <---- Can now install private packages
```

<BoxLink
  title="eas/use_npm_token source code"
  description="View the source code for the eas/use_npm_token function on GitHub."
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  href="https://github.com/expo/eas-build/blob/main/packages/build-tools/src/steps/functions/useNpmToken.ts"
/>
