docs/pages/versions/unversioned/config/metro.mdx, before:

---
title: metro.config.js
---

See more information about **metro.config.js** in the [customizing Metro guide](/guides/customizing-metro/).

## CSS

> Since SDK 49

> **info** CSS support is under development and currently only works on web.

Expo supports CSS in your project. You can import CSS files from any component. CSS Modules are also supported. To enable CSS, configure your `metro.config.js` as follows, setting `isCSSEnabled` to `true`:

```js metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');

/** @type {import('expo/metro-config').MetroConfig} */
const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname, {
  // Enable CSS support.
  isCSSEnabled: true,
});

module.exports = config;
```

Now you'll need to clear the Metro cache and restart the development server:

```sh
yarn expo start --clear
```

Ensure you don't have a custom Metro transformer that processes CSS files. If you do, you'll need to remove it.

### Global CSS

> Warning: Global styles are web-only, usage will cause your application to diverge visually on native.

You can import a CSS file from any component. The CSS will be applied to the entire page.

Here, we'll define a global style for the class name `.container`:

```css styles.css
.container {
  background-color: red;
}
```

We can then use the class name in our component by importing the stylesheet and using `.container`:

```js App.js
import './styles.css';
import { View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <>
      {/* Use `className` to assign the style with React DOM components. */}
      <div className="container">Hello World</div>

      {/* Use `style` with the following syntax to append class names in React Native for web. */}
      <View
        style={{
          $$css: true,
          _: 'container',
        }}>
        Hello World
      </View>
    </>
  );
}
```

You can also import stylesheets that are vendored in libraries, just like you would any node module:

```js index.js
// Applies the styles app-wide.
import 'emoji-mart/css/emoji-mart.css';
```

- On native, all global stylesheets are automatically ignored.
- Hot reloading is supported for global stylesheets, simply save the file and the changes will be applied.

### CSS Modules

> CSS Modules for native are under development and currently only work on web.

CSS Modules are a way to scope CSS to a specific component. This is useful for avoiding naming collisions and for ensuring that styles are only applied to the intended component.

In Expo, CSS Modules are defined by creating a file with the `.module.css` extension. The file can be imported from any component. The exported value is an object with the class names as keys and the React Native style objects as values.

> You cannot pass styles to the `className` prop of a React Native or React Native for web component. Instead, you must use the `style` prop.

```js App.js
import styles from './App.module.css';

export default function Page() {
  return <View style={styles.container}>Hello World</View>;
}
```

```css App.module.css
.container {
  background-color: red;
}
```

- On web, all CSS values are available. CSS is not processed or auto-prefixed like it is with the React Native Web `StyleSheet` API.
- CSS Modules use [lightningcss](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/lightningcss) under the hood, check [the issues](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/lightningcss/issues) for unsupported features.

## Bare workflow setup

> This guide is versioned and will need to be revisited when upgrading/downgrading Expo. Alternatively, use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) for fully automated setup.

Projects that don't use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) must configure native files to ensure the Expo Metro config is always used to bundle the project.

{/* 
If this isn't done, then features like [aliases](/guides/typescript#path-aliases), [absolute imports](/guides/typescript#absolute-imports), asset hashing, and more will not work.
*/}

These modifications are meant to replace `npx react-native bundle` and `npx react-native start` with `npx expo export:embed` and `npx expo start --dev-client` respectively.

### `metro.config.js`

Ensure the `metro.config.js` extends `expo/metro-config`:

```js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname);

module.exports = config;
```

### `android/app/build.gradle`

The Android `app/build.gradle` must be configured to use Expo CLI for production bundling. Modify the `react` config object:

```diff
react {
  ...
+     // Use Expo CLI to bundle the app, this ensures the Metro config
+     // works correctly with Expo projects.
+     cliFile = new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('@expo/cli')"].execute(null, rootDir).text.trim())
+     bundleCommand = "export:embed"
}
```

### `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj`

In your `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj` file, replace the following scripts:

#### "Start Packager"

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\nexport RCT_METRO_PORT=\"${RCT_METRO_PORT:=8081}\"\necho \"export RCT_METRO_PORT=${RCT_METRO_PORT}\" > `$NODE_BINARY --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/.packager.env'\"`\nif [ -z \"${RCT_NO_LAUNCH_PACKAGER+xxx}\" ] ; then\n  if nc -w 5 -z localhost ${RCT_METRO_PORT} ; then\n    if ! curl -s \"http://localhost:${RCT_METRO_PORT}/status\" | grep -q \"packager-status:running\" ; then\n      echo \"Port ${RCT_METRO_PORT} already in use, packager is either not running or not running correctly\"\n      exit 2\n    fi\n  else\n    open `$NODE_BINARY --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('expo/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'\"` || echo \"Can't start packager automatically\"\n  fi\nfi\n";
```

**Alternatively**, in the Xcode project, select the "Start Packager" build phase and add the following modifications:

```diff
+ if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
+   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
+ fi
+ if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
+   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
+ fi

export RCT_METRO_PORT="${RCT_METRO_PORT:=8081}"
echo "export RCT_METRO_PORT=${RCT_METRO_PORT}" > `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/.packager.env'"`
if [ -z "${RCT_NO_LAUNCH_PACKAGER+xxx}" ] ; then
  if nc -w 5 -z localhost ${RCT_METRO_PORT} ; then
    if ! curl -s "http://localhost:${RCT_METRO_PORT}/status" | grep -q "packager-status:running" ; then
      echo "Port ${RCT_METRO_PORT} already in use, packager is either not running or not running correctly"
      exit 2
    fi
  else
-     open `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'"` || echo "Can't start packager automatically"
+     open `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('expo/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'"` || echo "Can't start packager automatically"
  fi
fi
```

#### "Bundle React Native code and images"

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\n# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory\nexport PROJECT_ROOT=\"$PROJECT_DIR\"/..\n\nif [[ \"$CONFIGURATION\" = *Debug* ]]; then\n  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$ENTRY_FILE\" ]]; then\n  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.\n  export ENTRY_FILE=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" -e \"require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')\" \"$PROJECT_ROOT\" ios relative | tail -n 1)\"\nfi\n\nif [[ -z \"$CLI_PATH\" ]]; then\n  # Use Expo CLI\n  export CLI_PATH=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require.resolve('@expo/cli')\")\"\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$BUNDLE_COMMAND\" ]]; then\n  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling\n  export BUNDLE_COMMAND=\"export:embed\"\nfi\n\n`\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'\"`\n\n";
```

**Alternatively**, in the Xcode project, select the "Bundle React Native code and images" build phase and add the following modifications:

```diff
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
fi
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
fi

# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory
export PROJECT_ROOT="$PROJECT_DIR"/..

if [[ "$CONFIGURATION" = *Debug* ]]; then
  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1
fi
+ if [[ -z "$ENTRY_FILE" ]]; then
+   # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.
+   export ENTRY_FILE="$("$NODE_BINARY" -e "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')" "$PROJECT_ROOT" ios relative | tail -n 1)"
+ fi

+ if [[ -z "$CLI_PATH" ]]; then
+   # Use Expo CLI
+   export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require.resolve('@expo/cli')")"
+ fi
+ if [[ -z "$BUNDLE_COMMAND" ]]; then
+   # Default Expo CLI command for bundling
+   export BUNDLE_COMMAND="export:embed"
+ fi

`"$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'"`
```

> You can set `CLI_PATH`, `BUNDLE_COMMAND`, and `ENTRY_FILE` environment variables to overwrite these defaults.

### Custom Entry File

By default, React Native only supports using a root `index.js` file as the entry file (or platform-specific variation like `index.ios.js`). Expo projects allow using any entry file, but this requires addition bare setup.

#### Development

Development mode entry files can be enabled by using the [`expo-dev-client`](/clients/introduction.mdx) package. Alternatively you can add the following configuration:

In the `ios/[project]/AppDelegate.mm` file:

```diff
- (NSURL *)sourceURLForBridge:(RCTBridge *)bridge
{
#if DEBUG
-  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@"index"];
+  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"];
#else
  return [[NSBundle mainBundle] URLForResource:@"main" withExtension:@"jsbundle"];
#endif
}
```

In the `android/app/src/main/java/**/MainApplication.java`:

```diff
@Override
protected String getJSMainModuleName() {
-  return "index";
+  return ".expo/.virtual-metro-entry";
}
```

#### Production

In your `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj` file, replace the `"Bundle React Native code and images"` script to set `$ENTRY_FILE` according using Metro:

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\n# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory\nexport PROJECT_ROOT=\"$PROJECT_DIR\"/..\n\nif [[ \"$CONFIGURATION\" = *Debug* ]]; then\n  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$ENTRY_FILE\" ]]; then\n  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.\n  export ENTRY_FILE=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" -e \"require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')\" \"$PROJECT_ROOT\" ios relative | tail -n 1)\"\nfi\n\nif [[ -z \"$CLI_PATH\" ]]; then\n  # Use Expo CLI\n  export CLI_PATH=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require.resolve('@expo/cli')\")\"\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$BUNDLE_COMMAND\" ]]; then\n  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling\n  export BUNDLE_COMMAND=\"export:embed\"\nfi\n\n`\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'\"`\n\n";
```

The Android `app/build.gradle` must be configured to use Metro module resolution to find the root entry file. Modify the `react` config object:

```diff
+ def projectRoot = rootDir.getAbsoluteFile().getParentFile().getAbsolutePath()

react {
+    entryFile = file(["node", "-e", "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')", projectRoot, "android", "absolute"].execute(null, rootDir).text.trim())
}
```

Commit message:

add sass support to metro web

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/config/metro.mdx, after:

---
title: metro.config.js
---

See more information about **metro.config.js** in the [customizing Metro guide](/guides/customizing-metro/).

## CSS

> Since SDK 49

> **info** CSS support is under development and currently only works on web.

Expo supports CSS in your project. You can import CSS files from any component. CSS Modules are also supported. To enable CSS, configure your `metro.config.js` as follows, setting `isCSSEnabled` to `true`:

```js metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');

/** @type {import('expo/metro-config').MetroConfig} */
const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname, {
  // Enable CSS support.
  isCSSEnabled: true,
});

module.exports = config;
```

Now you'll need to clear the Metro cache and restart the development server:

```sh
yarn expo start --clear
```

Ensure you don't have a custom Metro transformer that processes CSS files. If you do, you'll need to remove it.

### Global CSS

> Warning: Global styles are web-only, usage will cause your application to diverge visually on native.

You can import a CSS file from any component. The CSS will be applied to the entire page.

Here, we'll define a global style for the class name `.container`:

```css styles.css
.container {
  background-color: red;
}
```

We can then use the class name in our component by importing the stylesheet and using `.container`:

```js App.js
import './styles.css';
import { View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <>
      {/* Use `className` to assign the style with React DOM components. */}
      <div className="container">Hello World</div>

      {/* Use `style` with the following syntax to append class names in React Native for web. */}
      <View
        style={{
          $$css: true,
          _: 'container',
        }}>
        Hello World
      </View>
    </>
  );
}
```

You can also import stylesheets that are vendored in libraries, just like you would any node module:

```js index.js
// Applies the styles app-wide.
import 'emoji-mart/css/emoji-mart.css';
```

- On native, all global stylesheets are automatically ignored.
- Hot reloading is supported for global stylesheets, simply save the file and the changes will be applied.

### CSS Modules

> CSS Modules for native are under development and currently only work on web.

CSS Modules are a way to scope CSS to a specific component. This is useful for avoiding naming collisions and for ensuring that styles are only applied to the intended component.

In Expo, CSS Modules are defined by creating a file with the `.module.css` extension. The file can be imported from any component. The exported value is an object with the class names as keys and the React Native style objects as values.

CSS Modules support platform extensions to allow you to define different styles for different platforms. For example, you can define a `module.ios.css` and `module.android.css` file to define styles for iOS and Android respectively. You'll need to import without the extension, for example:

```diff App.js
// Importing `./App.module.ios.css`:
- import styles from './App.module.css';
+ import styles from './App.module';
```

Flipping the extension, e.g. `App.ios.module.css` will not work and result in a universal module named `App.ios.module`.

> You cannot pass styles to the `className` prop of a React Native or React Native for web component. Instead, you must use the `style` prop.

```js App.js
import styles from './App.module.css';

export default function Page() {
  return <View style={styles.container}>Hello World</View>;
}
```

```css App.module.css
.container {
  background-color: red;
}
```

- On web, all CSS values are available. CSS is not processed or auto-prefixed like it is with the React Native Web `StyleSheet` API.
- CSS Modules use [lightningcss](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/lightningcss) under the hood, check [the issues](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/lightningcss/issues) for unsupported features.

### SASS

Expo Metro has _partial_ support for SCSS/SASS.

To setup, install the `sass` package in your project:

```sh
yarn add sass
```

Then, ensure [CSS is setup](#css) in the `metro.config.js` file.

- When `sass` is installed, then modules without extensions will be resolved in the following order: `scss`, `sass`, `css`.
- Only use the intended syntax with `sass` files.
- Importing other files from inside a scss/sass file is not currently supported.

## Bare workflow setup

> This guide is versioned and will need to be revisited when upgrading/downgrading Expo. Alternatively, use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) for fully automated setup.

Projects that don't use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) must configure native files to ensure the Expo Metro config is always used to bundle the project.

{/* If this isn't done, then features like [aliases](/guides/typescript#path-aliases), [absolute imports](/guides/typescript#absolute-imports), asset hashing, and more will not work. */}

These modifications are meant to replace `npx react-native bundle` and `npx react-native start` with `npx expo export:embed` and `npx expo start --dev-client` respectively.

### `metro.config.js`

Ensure the `metro.config.js` extends `expo/metro-config`:

```js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname);

module.exports = config;
```

### `android/app/build.gradle`

The Android `app/build.gradle` must be configured to use Expo CLI for production bundling. Modify the `react` config object:

```diff
react {
  ...
+     // Use Expo CLI to bundle the app, this ensures the Metro config
+     // works correctly with Expo projects.
+     cliFile = new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('@expo/cli')"].execute(null, rootDir).text.trim())
+     bundleCommand = "export:embed"
}
```

### `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj`

In your `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj` file, replace the following scripts:

#### "Start Packager"

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\nexport RCT_METRO_PORT=\"${RCT_METRO_PORT:=8081}\"\necho \"export RCT_METRO_PORT=${RCT_METRO_PORT}\" > `$NODE_BINARY --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/.packager.env'\"`\nif [ -z \"${RCT_NO_LAUNCH_PACKAGER+xxx}\" ] ; then\n  if nc -w 5 -z localhost ${RCT_METRO_PORT} ; then\n    if ! curl -s \"http://localhost:${RCT_METRO_PORT}/status\" | grep -q \"packager-status:running\" ; then\n      echo \"Port ${RCT_METRO_PORT} already in use, packager is either not running or not running correctly\"\n      exit 2\n    fi\n  else\n    open `$NODE_BINARY --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('expo/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'\"` || echo \"Can't start packager automatically\"\n  fi\nfi\n";
```

**Alternatively**, in the Xcode project, select the "Start Packager" build phase and add the following modifications:

```diff
+ if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
+   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
+ fi
+ if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
+   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
+ fi

export RCT_METRO_PORT="${RCT_METRO_PORT:=8081}"
echo "export RCT_METRO_PORT=${RCT_METRO_PORT}" > `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/.packager.env'"`
if [ -z "${RCT_NO_LAUNCH_PACKAGER+xxx}" ] ; then
  if nc -w 5 -z localhost ${RCT_METRO_PORT} ; then
    if ! curl -s "http://localhost:${RCT_METRO_PORT}/status" | grep -q "packager-status:running" ; then
      echo "Port ${RCT_METRO_PORT} already in use, packager is either not running or not running correctly"
      exit 2
    fi
  else
-     open `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'"` || echo "Can't start packager automatically"
+     open `$NODE_BINARY --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('expo/package.json')) + '/scripts/launchPackager.command'"` || echo "Can't start packager automatically"
  fi
fi
```

#### "Bundle React Native code and images"

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\n# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory\nexport PROJECT_ROOT=\"$PROJECT_DIR\"/..\n\nif [[ \"$CONFIGURATION\" = *Debug* ]]; then\n  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$ENTRY_FILE\" ]]; then\n  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.\n  export ENTRY_FILE=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" -e \"require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')\" \"$PROJECT_ROOT\" ios relative | tail -n 1)\"\nfi\n\nif [[ -z \"$CLI_PATH\" ]]; then\n  # Use Expo CLI\n  export CLI_PATH=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require.resolve('@expo/cli')\")\"\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$BUNDLE_COMMAND\" ]]; then\n  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling\n  export BUNDLE_COMMAND=\"export:embed\"\nfi\n\n`\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'\"`\n\n";
```

**Alternatively**, in the Xcode project, select the "Bundle React Native code and images" build phase and add the following modifications:

```diff
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
fi
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
fi

# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory
export PROJECT_ROOT="$PROJECT_DIR"/..

if [[ "$CONFIGURATION" = *Debug* ]]; then
  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1
fi
+ if [[ -z "$ENTRY_FILE" ]]; then
+   # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.
+   export ENTRY_FILE="$("$NODE_BINARY" -e "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')" "$PROJECT_ROOT" ios relative | tail -n 1)"
+ fi

+ if [[ -z "$CLI_PATH" ]]; then
+   # Use Expo CLI
+   export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require.resolve('@expo/cli')")"
+ fi
+ if [[ -z "$BUNDLE_COMMAND" ]]; then
+   # Default Expo CLI command for bundling
+   export BUNDLE_COMMAND="export:embed"
+ fi

`"$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'"`
```

> You can set `CLI_PATH`, `BUNDLE_COMMAND`, and `ENTRY_FILE` environment variables to overwrite these defaults.

### Custom Entry File

By default, React Native only supports using a root `index.js` file as the entry file (or platform-specific variation like `index.ios.js`). Expo projects allow using any entry file, but this requires addition bare setup.

#### Development

Development mode entry files can be enabled by using the [`expo-dev-client`](/clients/introduction.mdx) package. Alternatively you can add the following configuration:

In the `ios/[project]/AppDelegate.mm` file:

```diff
- (NSURL *)sourceURLForBridge:(RCTBridge *)bridge
{
#if DEBUG
-  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@"index"];
+  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"];
#else
  return [[NSBundle mainBundle] URLForResource:@"main" withExtension:@"jsbundle"];
#endif
}
```

In the `android/app/src/main/java/**/MainApplication.java`:

```diff
@Override
protected String getJSMainModuleName() {
-  return "index";
+  return ".expo/.virtual-metro-entry";
}
```

#### Production

In your `ios/<Project>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj` file, replace the `"Bundle React Native code and images"` script to set `$ENTRY_FILE` according using Metro:

```diff
+			shellScript = "if [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env\"\nfi\nif [[ -f \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\" ]]; then\n  source \"$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local\"\nfi\n\n# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory\nexport PROJECT_ROOT=\"$PROJECT_DIR\"/..\n\nif [[ \"$CONFIGURATION\" = *Debug* ]]; then\n  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$ENTRY_FILE\" ]]; then\n  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.\n  export ENTRY_FILE=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" -e \"require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')\" \"$PROJECT_ROOT\" ios relative | tail -n 1)\"\nfi\n\nif [[ -z \"$CLI_PATH\" ]]; then\n  # Use Expo CLI\n  export CLI_PATH=\"$(\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require.resolve('@expo/cli')\")\"\nfi\nif [[ -z \"$BUNDLE_COMMAND\" ]]; then\n  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling\n  export BUNDLE_COMMAND=\"export:embed\"\nfi\n\n`\"$NODE_BINARY\" --print \"require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'\"`\n\n";
```

The Android `app/build.gradle` must be configured to use Metro module resolution to find the root entry file. Modify the `react` config object:

```diff
+ def projectRoot = rootDir.getAbsoluteFile().getParentFile().getAbsolutePath()

react {
+    entryFile = file(["node", "-e", "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')", projectRoot, "android", "absolute"].execute(null, rootDir).text.trim())
}
```
