docs/pages/eas-workflows/triggers.mdx, before:

---
title: Triggers
description: Learn which triggers are available to work with EAS Workflows.
---

Triggers define when a workflow should kick off. When its conditions are met, the workflow will start.

## On push

You can trigger a workflow on a push to a GitHub branch with the `push` trigger.

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  push:
	  branches:
	    - 'main'
	    - 'feature/**'
	    # other branches names and globs

jobs:
  # ...
```

## On pull request

You can trigger a workflow on a pull request with the `pull_request` trigger.

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  pull_request:
	  branches:
		  - 'main'
		  # other branch names and globs

jobs:
  # ...
```

## More

EAS Workflows also support triggering on all branches, on both push and pull request events:

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
	push: {} # this will default to `branches: ['*']`, meaning "run on all branches"
	pull_request: {}

jobs:
  # ...
```

Commit message:

[docs] Update workflow trigger docs
Updated the docs regarding the workflow trigger configuration

See: https://linear.app/expo/issue/ENG-14844/add-gha-syntax-for-handling-pull-request-events

docs/pages/eas-workflows/triggers.mdx, after:

---
title: Triggers
description: Learn which triggers are available to work with EAS Workflows.
---

Triggers define when a workflow should kick off. When its conditions are met, the workflow will start.

## On push

You can trigger a workflow on a push to a GitHub branch with the `push` trigger.

With the `branches` array you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are pushed to. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']` only pushes to `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on push events to all branches.

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  push:
	  branches:
	    - 'main'
	    - 'feature/**'
	    # other branches names and globs

jobs:
  # ...
```

## On pull request

You can trigger a workflow on a pull request events with the `pull_request` trigger.

With the `branches` array you can trigger the workflow only when those specified branches are the target of the pull request. For example, if you use `branches: ['main']` only pull requests to `main` branch will trigger the workflow. Supports globs. Defaults to `['*']` when not provided, which means the workflow will trigger on pull request events to all branches.

With the `types` array you can trigger the workflow only on the specified pull request event types. For example, if you use `types: ['opened']` only the `pull_request.opened` event (sent when pull request is first opened) will trigger the workflow. Defaults to `['opened', 'reopened', 'synchronize']` when not provided. Supported event types:
- `opened`
- `reopened`
- `synchronize`

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - 'main'
      # other branch names and globs
    types:
      - 'opened'
      # other event types

jobs:
  # ...
```

## More

EAS Workflows also support triggering on all branches, on both push and pull request events:

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yml
name: Hello World

on:
	push: {} # this will default to `branches: ['*']`, meaning "run on all branches"
	pull_request: {}

jobs:
  # ...
```
