docs/pages/eas-update/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: EAS Update FAQ
sidebar_title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about EAS Update.
---

### What guidelines must I follow when publishing updates?

One of the rules of EAS Update is that you need to follow the rules of the platforms and app stores you are building for. This means your updates need to follow the App Store and Play Store guidelines, including the content of the updates and how you use them. This usually means changes to your app’s behavior need to be reviewed.

App Store rules regularly change and just like how you’d need to follow them if you were writing an app without Expo, you need to follow them when you’re using Expo and EAS Update.

EAS Update is a great way to quickly deliver improvements to the people who use your apps. For example, consider an app that has a critical bug that needs to be fixed. With EAS Update you can quickly get the fix out and later follow up with a new submission that includes the fix built in.

### Are Classic Updates still supported?

Expo is committed to supporting projects that use Classic Updates, which is the updates service available before December 2021. Apps that receive updates from the Classic Updates service will continue to work. With that, we are not planning on adding new features to Classic Updates other than fixing general issues and implementing security fixes as they arise.

In the future, we plan to scale down Classic Updates as we transition to EAS Update. We will ensure every developer still using the service will have ample notice to upgrade to the modern Expo Updates format so that they can use another update service like their own servers or EAS Update.

Commit message:

[docs] EAS Update: add more links to api

docs/pages/eas-update/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: EAS Update FAQ
sidebar_title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about EAS Update.
---

### How can I implement a custom update strategy for my app?

The default update strategy for `expo-updates` is to check for updates every time the app is loaded. You can implement a custom update strategy with the [Updates API](/versions/latest/sdk/updates) and [app.json configuration](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).

### What guidelines must I follow when publishing updates?

One of the rules of EAS Update is that you need to follow the rules of the platforms and app stores you are building for. This means your updates need to follow the App Store and Play Store guidelines, including the content of the updates and how you use them. This usually means changes to your app’s behavior need to be reviewed.

App Store rules regularly change and just like how you’d need to follow them if you were writing an app without Expo, you need to follow them when you’re using Expo and EAS Update.

EAS Update is a great way to quickly deliver improvements to the people who use your apps. For example, consider an app that has a critical bug that needs to be fixed. With EAS Update you can quickly get the fix out and later follow up with a new submission that includes the fix built in.

### Are Classic Updates still supported?

Expo is committed to supporting projects that use Classic Updates, which is the updates service available before December 2021. Apps that receive updates from the Classic Updates service will continue to work. With that, we are not planning on adding new features to Classic Updates other than fixing general issues and implementing security fixes as they arise.

In the future, we plan to scale down Classic Updates as we transition to EAS Update. We will ensure every developer still using the service will have ample notice to upgrade to the modern Expo Updates format so that they can use another update service like their own servers or EAS Update.
