docs/pages/eas-update/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: EAS Update
sidebar_title: Introduction
hideTOC: true
description: An introduction to EAS Update which is a hosted service for projects using the expo-updates library.
---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

**EAS Update** is a hosted service that serves updates for projects using the `expo-updates` library.

EAS Update makes fixing small bugs and pushing quick fixes a snap in between app store submissions. It accomplishes this by allowing an end-user's app to swap out the non-native parts of their app (for example, JS, styling, and image changes) with a new update that contains bug fixes and other updates.

All apps running the `expo-updates` library have the ability to receive updates. To start using EAS Update, continue to the [Getting Started](/eas-update/getting-started.mdx) guide.

Still using Classic Updates? We moved those docs to [the archive](/archive/classic-updates/introduction).

### Get started

<BoxLink
  title="Creating your first update"
  description="Get started with EAS Update and use it in your project."
  href="/eas-update/getting-started"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Use GitHub Actions"
  description="Publish an update and preview with a QR code after a commit."
  href="/eas-update/github-actions"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Develop faster"
  description="View your teammate's changes with EAS Update."
  href="/eas-update/develop-faster"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Deployment patterns"
  description="Release processes that balance update safety and speed."
  href="/eas-update/deployment-patterns"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Migrate from CodePush"
  description="Transition a bare React Native project from CodePush."
  href="/eas-update/codepush"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Debug"
  description="When your app doesn't update as expected."
  href="/eas-update/debug"
/>

Commit message:

[docs] EAS Update: add pitch and revamp intro page

docs/pages/eas-update/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: EAS Update
sidebar_title: Introduction
hideTOC: true
description: An introduction to EAS Update which is a hosted service for projects using the expo-updates library.
---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

**EAS Update** is a hosted service that serves updates for projects using the `expo-updates` library.

EAS Update makes fixing small bugs and pushing quick fixes a snap in between app store submissions. It accomplishes this by allowing an end-user's app to swap out the non-native parts of their app (for example, JS, styling, and image changes) with a new update that contains bug fixes and other updates.

All apps running the `expo-updates` library have the ability to receive updates. To start using EAS Update, continue to the [Getting Started](/eas-update/getting-started.mdx) guide.

Still using Classic Updates? We moved those docs to [the archive](/archive/classic-updates/introduction).

## Pitch

#### Improve User Experience

With EAS Update, you can release hotfixes and enhancements in response to user feedback or market trends, keeping your users engaged and satisfied with your app. Don't wait for the next planned update or manual update request.

#### Broad Compatibility

EAS Update works with vanilla React Native apps, all you need to do is install the lightweight `expo` npm package as a prerequisite, making it a compelling alternative to solutions like [Codepush](/eas-update/codepush).

#### Tailored for Expo

EAS Update is designed for Expo apps, making integration easy and workflows efficient. Use the website UIs to check app status and debug, especially for developers using EAS Build.

#### Customizable Update Strategies

Customizable Update Strategies: Apply updates through our [expo-updates API](/versions/latest/sdk/updates) and [app.json configuration](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates) if the default behavior is not suitable for you. You’ll always have the upper hand in shaping the update process without compromising your users' experience.

## Get started

<BoxLink
  title="Creating your first update"
  description="Get started with EAS Update and use it in your project."
  href="/eas-update/getting-started"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Use GitHub Actions"
  description="Publish an update and preview with a QR code after a commit."
  href="/eas-update/github-actions"
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Develop faster"
  description="View your teammate's changes with EAS Update."
  href="/eas-update/develop-faster"
/>
