docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/filesystem.mdx, before:

---
title: FileSystem
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-file-system'
packageName: 'expo-file-system'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-file-system.png'
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

**`expo-file-system`** provides access to a file system stored locally on the device. Within Expo Go, each project has a separate file system and has no access to the file system of other Expo projects. However, it can save content shared by other projects to the local filesystem, as well as share local files with other projects. It is also capable of uploading and downloading files from network URLs.

{/* TODO: update this image so we don't have to force a white background on it */}

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Diagram of the various pieces of expo-file-system and how they interact with different resources"
  src="/static/images/sdk/file-system/file-system-diagram.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 850, maxHeight: 600 }}
  containerStyle={{ backgroundColor: '#fff' }}
/>

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-file-system` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-file-system#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Usage

### Downloading files

```js Component.js
const callback = downloadProgress => {
  const progress = downloadProgress.totalBytesWritten / downloadProgress.totalBytesExpectedToWrite;
  this.setState({
    downloadProgress: progress,
  });
};

const downloadResumable = FileSystem.createDownloadResumable(
  'http://techslides.com/demos/sample-videos/small.mp4',
  FileSystem.documentDirectory + 'small.mp4',
  {},
  callback
);

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.downloadAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

try {
  await downloadResumable.pauseAsync();
  console.log('Paused download operation, saving for future retrieval');
  AsyncStorage.setItem('pausedDownload', JSON.stringify(downloadResumable.savable()));
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.resumeAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

//To resume a download across app restarts, assuming the DownloadResumable.savable() object was stored:
const downloadSnapshotJson = await AsyncStorage.getItem('pausedDownload');
const downloadSnapshot = JSON.parse(downloadSnapshotJson);
const downloadResumable = new FileSystem.DownloadResumable(
  downloadSnapshot.url,
  downloadSnapshot.fileUri,
  downloadSnapshot.options,
  callback,
  downloadSnapshot.resumeData
);

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.resumeAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}
```

### Managing Giphy's

<SnackInline
  label="Giphy example"
  templateId="filesystem/App"
  dependencies={['expo-file-system']}
  files={{
    'GifFetching.ts': 'filesystem/gifFetching.ts',
    'GifManagement.ts': 'filesystem/gifManagement.ts'
  }}
>

```typescript
import * as FileSystem from 'expo-file-system';

const gifDir = FileSystem.cacheDirectory + 'giphy/';
const gifFileUri = (gifId: string) => gifDir + `gif_${gifId}_200.gif`;
const gifUrl = (gifId: string) => `https://media1.giphy.com/media/${gifId}/200.gif`;

// Checks if gif directory exists. If not, creates it
async function ensureDirExists() {
  const dirInfo = await FileSystem.getInfoAsync(gifDir);
  if (!dirInfo.exists) {
    console.log("Gif directory doesn't exist, creating...");
    await FileSystem.makeDirectoryAsync(gifDir, { intermediates: true });
  }
}

// Downloads all gifs specified as array of IDs
export async function addMultipleGifs(gifIds: string[]) {
  try {
    await ensureDirExists();

    console.log('Downloading', gifIds.length, 'gif files...');
    await Promise.all(gifIds.map(id => FileSystem.downloadAsync(gifUrl(id), gifFileUri(id))));
  } catch (e) {
    console.error("Couldn't download gif files:", e);
  }
}

// Returns URI to our local gif file
// If our gif doesn't exist locally, it downloads it
export async function getSingleGif(gifId: string) {
  await ensureDirExists();

  const fileUri = gifFileUri(gifId);
  const fileInfo = await FileSystem.getInfoAsync(fileUri);

  if (!fileInfo.exists) {
    console.log("Gif isn't cached locally. Downloading...");
    await FileSystem.downloadAsync(gifUrl(gifId), fileUri);
  }

  return fileUri;
}

// Exports shareable URI - it can be shared outside your app
export async function getGifContentUri(gifId: string) {
  return FileSystem.getContentUriAsync(await getSingleGif(gifId));
}

// Deletes whole giphy directory with all its content
export async function deleteAllGifs() {
  console.log('Deleting all GIF files...');
  await FileSystem.deleteAsync(gifDir);
}
```

</SnackInline>

### Server: Handling multipart requests

The simple server in Node.js, which can save uploaded images to disk:

```js index.js
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const fs = require('fs');
const multer = require('multer');
const upload = multer({ dest: 'uploads/' });

// This method will save the binary content of the request as a file.
app.patch('/binary-upload', (req, res) => {
  req.pipe(fs.createWriteStream('./uploads/image' + Date.now() + '.png'));
  res.end('OK');
});

// This method will save a "photo" field from the request as a file.
app.patch('/multipart-upload', upload.single('photo'), (req, res) => {
  // You can access other HTTP parameters. They are located in the body object.
  console.log(req.body);
  res.end('OK');
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log('Working on port 3000');
});
```

## Permissions

### Android

The following permissions are added automatically through this library's `AndroidManifest.xml`.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'INTERNET']} />

### iOS

_No permissions required_.

## API

```js
import * as FileSystem from 'expo-file-system';
```

### Directories

The API takes `file://` URIs pointing to local files on the device to identify files. Each app only has read and write access to locations under the following directories:

- [`FileSystem.documentDirectory`](#documendirectory)
- [`FileSystem.cacheDirectory`](#cachedirectory)

So, for example, the URI to a file named `'myFile'` under `'myDirectory'` in the app's user documents directory would be `FileSystem.documentDirectory + 'myDirectory/myFile'`.

Expo APIs that create files generally operate within these directories. This includes `Audio` recordings, `Camera` photos, `ImagePicker` results, `SQLite` databases and `takeSnapShotAsync()` results. This allows their use with the `FileSystem` API.

Some `FileSystem` functions are able to read from (but not write to) other locations.

### SAF URI

A SAF URI is a URI that is compatible with the Storage Access Framework. It should look like this `content://com.android.externalstorage.*`.
The easiest way to obtain such URI is by [`requestDirectoryPermissionsAsync`](#requestdirectorypermissionsasyncinitialfileurl) method.

<APISection packageName="expo-file-system" apiName="FileSystem" />

## Supported URI schemes

In this table, you can see what type of URI can be handled by each method. For example, if you have an URI, which begins with `content://`, you cannot use `FileSystem.readAsStringAsync()`, but you can use `FileSystem.copyAsync()` which supports this scheme.

| Method name               | Android                                                                                                                              | iOS                                                                                             |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `getInfoAsync`            | `file:///`,<br/>`content://`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>no scheme                                                                          | `file://`,<br/>`ph://`,<br/>`assets-library://`                                                 |
| `readAsStringAsync`       | `file:///`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `writeAsStringAsync`      | `file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `deleteAsync`             | `file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `moveAsync`               | Source:<br/>`file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                                                  | Source:<br/>`file://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                                       |
| `copyAsync`               | Source:<br/>`file:///`,<br/>`content://`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri),<br/>no scheme<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://` | Source:<br/>`file://`,<br/>`ph://`,<br/>`assets-library://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://` |
| `makeDirectoryAsync`      | `file:///`                                                                                                                           | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `readDirectoryAsync`      | `file:///`                                                                                                                           | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `downloadAsync`           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file:///`                                                           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                       |
| `uploadAsync`             | Source:<br/>`file:///`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`http://`<br/>`https://`                                                            | Source:<br/>`file://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`http://`<br/>`https://`                        |
| `createDownloadResumable` | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file:///`                                                           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                       |

> On Android **no scheme** defaults to a bundled resource.

Commit message:

Add description for FileSystem, Flash List, Font, Gesture Handler, GLView, Gyroscope

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/filesystem.mdx, after:

---
title: FileSystem
description: A library that provides access to the local file system on the device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-file-system'
packageName: 'expo-file-system'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-file-system.png'
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

**`expo-file-system`** provides access to a file system stored locally on the device. Within Expo Go, each project has a separate file system and has no access to the file system of other Expo projects. However, it can save content shared by other projects to the local filesystem, as well as share local files with other projects. It is also capable of uploading and downloading files from network URLs.

{/* TODO: update this image so we don't have to force a white background on it */}

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Diagram of the various pieces of expo-file-system and how they interact with different resources"
  src="/static/images/sdk/file-system/file-system-diagram.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 850, maxHeight: 600 }}
  containerStyle={{ backgroundColor: '#fff' }}
/>

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-file-system` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-file-system#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Usage

### Downloading files

```js Component.js
const callback = downloadProgress => {
  const progress = downloadProgress.totalBytesWritten / downloadProgress.totalBytesExpectedToWrite;
  this.setState({
    downloadProgress: progress,
  });
};

const downloadResumable = FileSystem.createDownloadResumable(
  'http://techslides.com/demos/sample-videos/small.mp4',
  FileSystem.documentDirectory + 'small.mp4',
  {},
  callback
);

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.downloadAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

try {
  await downloadResumable.pauseAsync();
  console.log('Paused download operation, saving for future retrieval');
  AsyncStorage.setItem('pausedDownload', JSON.stringify(downloadResumable.savable()));
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.resumeAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}

//To resume a download across app restarts, assuming the DownloadResumable.savable() object was stored:
const downloadSnapshotJson = await AsyncStorage.getItem('pausedDownload');
const downloadSnapshot = JSON.parse(downloadSnapshotJson);
const downloadResumable = new FileSystem.DownloadResumable(
  downloadSnapshot.url,
  downloadSnapshot.fileUri,
  downloadSnapshot.options,
  callback,
  downloadSnapshot.resumeData
);

try {
  const { uri } = await downloadResumable.resumeAsync();
  console.log('Finished downloading to ', uri);
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}
```

### Managing Giphy's

<SnackInline
  label="Giphy example"
  templateId="filesystem/App"
  dependencies={['expo-file-system']}
  files={{
    'GifFetching.ts': 'filesystem/gifFetching.ts',
    'GifManagement.ts': 'filesystem/gifManagement.ts'
  }}
>

```typescript
import * as FileSystem from 'expo-file-system';

const gifDir = FileSystem.cacheDirectory + 'giphy/';
const gifFileUri = (gifId: string) => gifDir + `gif_${gifId}_200.gif`;
const gifUrl = (gifId: string) => `https://media1.giphy.com/media/${gifId}/200.gif`;

// Checks if gif directory exists. If not, creates it
async function ensureDirExists() {
  const dirInfo = await FileSystem.getInfoAsync(gifDir);
  if (!dirInfo.exists) {
    console.log("Gif directory doesn't exist, creating...");
    await FileSystem.makeDirectoryAsync(gifDir, { intermediates: true });
  }
}

// Downloads all gifs specified as array of IDs
export async function addMultipleGifs(gifIds: string[]) {
  try {
    await ensureDirExists();

    console.log('Downloading', gifIds.length, 'gif files...');
    await Promise.all(gifIds.map(id => FileSystem.downloadAsync(gifUrl(id), gifFileUri(id))));
  } catch (e) {
    console.error("Couldn't download gif files:", e);
  }
}

// Returns URI to our local gif file
// If our gif doesn't exist locally, it downloads it
export async function getSingleGif(gifId: string) {
  await ensureDirExists();

  const fileUri = gifFileUri(gifId);
  const fileInfo = await FileSystem.getInfoAsync(fileUri);

  if (!fileInfo.exists) {
    console.log("Gif isn't cached locally. Downloading...");
    await FileSystem.downloadAsync(gifUrl(gifId), fileUri);
  }

  return fileUri;
}

// Exports shareable URI - it can be shared outside your app
export async function getGifContentUri(gifId: string) {
  return FileSystem.getContentUriAsync(await getSingleGif(gifId));
}

// Deletes whole giphy directory with all its content
export async function deleteAllGifs() {
  console.log('Deleting all GIF files...');
  await FileSystem.deleteAsync(gifDir);
}
```

</SnackInline>

### Server: Handling multipart requests

The simple server in Node.js, which can save uploaded images to disk:

```js index.js
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const fs = require('fs');
const multer = require('multer');
const upload = multer({ dest: 'uploads/' });

// This method will save the binary content of the request as a file.
app.patch('/binary-upload', (req, res) => {
  req.pipe(fs.createWriteStream('./uploads/image' + Date.now() + '.png'));
  res.end('OK');
});

// This method will save a "photo" field from the request as a file.
app.patch('/multipart-upload', upload.single('photo'), (req, res) => {
  // You can access other HTTP parameters. They are located in the body object.
  console.log(req.body);
  res.end('OK');
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log('Working on port 3000');
});
```

## Permissions

### Android

The following permissions are added automatically through this library's `AndroidManifest.xml`.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'INTERNET']} />

### iOS

_No permissions required_.

## API

```js
import * as FileSystem from 'expo-file-system';
```

### Directories

The API takes `file://` URIs pointing to local files on the device to identify files. Each app only has read and write access to locations under the following directories:

- [`FileSystem.documentDirectory`](#documendirectory)
- [`FileSystem.cacheDirectory`](#cachedirectory)

So, for example, the URI to a file named `'myFile'` under `'myDirectory'` in the app's user documents directory would be `FileSystem.documentDirectory + 'myDirectory/myFile'`.

Expo APIs that create files generally operate within these directories. This includes `Audio` recordings, `Camera` photos, `ImagePicker` results, `SQLite` databases and `takeSnapShotAsync()` results. This allows their use with the `FileSystem` API.

Some `FileSystem` functions are able to read from (but not write to) other locations.

### SAF URI

A SAF URI is a URI that is compatible with the Storage Access Framework. It should look like this `content://com.android.externalstorage.*`.
The easiest way to obtain such URI is by [`requestDirectoryPermissionsAsync`](#requestdirectorypermissionsasyncinitialfileurl) method.

<APISection packageName="expo-file-system" apiName="FileSystem" />

## Supported URI schemes

In this table, you can see what type of URI can be handled by each method. For example, if you have an URI, which begins with `content://`, you cannot use `FileSystem.readAsStringAsync()`, but you can use `FileSystem.copyAsync()` which supports this scheme.

| Method name               | Android                                                                                                                              | iOS                                                                                             |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `getInfoAsync`            | `file:///`,<br/>`content://`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>no scheme                                                                          | `file://`,<br/>`ph://`,<br/>`assets-library://`                                                 |
| `readAsStringAsync`       | `file:///`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `writeAsStringAsync`      | `file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `deleteAsync`             | `file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)                                                                                                  | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `moveAsync`               | Source:<br/>`file:///`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri)<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                                                  | Source:<br/>`file://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                                       |
| `copyAsync`               | Source:<br/>`file:///`,<br/>`content://`,<br/>`asset://`,<br/>[SAF URI](#saf-uri),<br/>no scheme<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://` | Source:<br/>`file://`,<br/>`ph://`,<br/>`assets-library://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://` |
| `makeDirectoryAsync`      | `file:///`                                                                                                                           | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `readDirectoryAsync`      | `file:///`                                                                                                                           | `file://`                                                                                       |
| `downloadAsync`           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file:///`                                                           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                       |
| `uploadAsync`             | Source:<br/>`file:///`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`http://`<br/>`https://`                                                            | Source:<br/>`file://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`http://`<br/>`https://`                        |
| `createDownloadResumable` | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file:///`                                                           | Source:<br/>`http://`,<br/>`https://`<br/><br/>Destination:<br/>`file://`                       |

> On Android **no scheme** defaults to a bundled resource.
