docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/firebase-analytics.mdx, before:

---
title: FirebaseAnalytics
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-firebase-analytics'
packageName: 'expo-firebase-analytics'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> **warning** **Deprecated:** This module will no longer be available in SDK 48. [Learn how to migrate to React Native Firebase](https://expo.fyi/firebase-migration-guide).

> **This is the only Firebase Analytics package for React Native that has universal platform support (iOS, Android, Web, and Electron).**

`expo-firebase-analytics` provides a unified native and web API for Google Analytics for Firebase, including partial Expo Go compatibility. Google Analytics for Firebase is a free app measurement solution that provides insight on app usage and user engagement.
Learn more in the official [Firebase Docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

When using the [web platform](/workflow/web/), you'll also need to run the `npx expo install firebase`, to install the Firebase JS SDK.

## Configuration

### Additional configuration for iOS

`expo-firebase-analytics` uses native Firebase libraries on iOS that require additional configuration using the `expo-build-properties` config plugin. Install the plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-build-properties']} />

#### Example app.json with config plugin

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

### With React Native Firebase

If you are using `expo-firebase-analytics` with React Native Firebase, you'll have to install the native Firebase SDK using the `npx expo install` command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install @react-native-firebase/app']} />

This will ensure that the `@react-native-firebase/app` dependency version is compatible with the Expo SDK version your project uses.

Also, make sure that you have React Native Firebase set up correctly in your project. For more information on how to set it up, see [Install and initialize React Native Firebase](/guides/using-firebase/#install-and-initialize-react-native-firebase).

### Expo Go: Limitations & configuration

The use of native Firebase Analytics requires that the [Google services configuration](/guides/using-firebase/#step-4-provide-google-services-configuration) is bundled and linked into your app. Since Expo Go loads projects on demand, it does not have the Google services configuration linked into the app bundle.

Expo Go relies on a JavaScript-based implementation of Firebase Analytics to log events. This means that certain native life-cycle events are not recorded in the standard client, but you can still use [`logEvent()`](#analyticslogeventname-properties) method to record events.

You can use Firebase Analytics in Expo Go to verify that you are logging events when you intend to, and with the data you want to attach without having to build an application binary that can be submitted to app stores. To set this up, ensure that the Firebase web configuration is set in **app.json** and that `measurementId` exists in your firebase config.

Here is an example of how to configure **app.json** to add `measurementId`:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "web": {
      "config": {
        "firebase": {
          "apiKey": "AIzaXXXXXXXX-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
          ...
          "measurementId": "G-XXXXXXXXX"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If `measurementId` doesn't exist, then you need to [enable or update Google Analytics](https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/get-started?platform=web) in your Firebase project.

> This limitation only applies to the Expo Go app in the App and Play stores; standalone builds, custom clients & bare apps support the full native Firebase Analytics experience.

## Usage

### Logging event

You can gain deeper insight into what works and what doesn't by using the `logEvent` property.

```ts
/*
 * Say we are in a tinder clone, and a user presses the card to view more
 * information on a user. We should track this event so we can see if people
 * are even using it.
 *
 * If lots of users are opening the card then swiping through photos, just
 * to dismiss again, then we should consider making it possible to look
 * through photos without having to enter the profile.
 */
onPressProfileButton = uid => {
  Analytics.logEvent('ExpandProfile', {
    /*
     * We want to know if the user came from from the swipe card as
     * opposed to from chat or a deep link.
     */
    sender: 'card',
    /*
     * This may be too specific and not very useful, but maybe down the line * we could investigate why a certain user is more popular than others.
     */
    user: uid,
    /*
     * We can use this information later to compare against other events.
     */
    screen: 'profile',
    purpose: 'Viewing more info on a user',
  });
};
```

### React Navigation

You can track the screens your users are interacting with by integrating our recommend navigation library: `react-navigation`. To see an example of how this works, see [Screen tracking](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/en/screen-tracking.html) in React Navigation documentation.

## API

```js
import * as Analytics from 'expo-firebase-analytics';
```

To use web analytics, you'll also need to install the peer dependency **firebase** with `npx expo install firebase`.

<APISection packageName="expo-firebase-analytics" apiName="Analytics" />

Commit message:

Add description for removed and deprecated Firebase libraries

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/firebase-analytics.mdx, after:

---
title: FirebaseAnalytics
description: A library that provides a unified native and web API for Google Analytics for Firebase.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-firebase-analytics'
packageName: 'expo-firebase-analytics'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> **warning** **Deprecated:** This module will no longer be available in SDK 48. [Learn how to migrate to React Native Firebase](https://expo.fyi/firebase-migration-guide).

> **This is the only Firebase Analytics package for React Native that has universal platform support (iOS, Android, Web, and Electron).**

`expo-firebase-analytics` provides a unified native and web API for Google Analytics for Firebase, including partial Expo Go compatibility. Google Analytics for Firebase is a free app measurement solution that provides insight on app usage and user engagement.
Learn more in the official [Firebase Docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

When using the [web platform](/workflow/web/), you'll also need to run the `npx expo install firebase`, to install the Firebase JS SDK.

## Configuration

### Additional configuration for iOS

`expo-firebase-analytics` uses native Firebase libraries on iOS that require additional configuration using the `expo-build-properties` config plugin. Install the plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-build-properties']} />

#### Example app.json with config plugin

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

### With React Native Firebase

If you are using `expo-firebase-analytics` with React Native Firebase, you'll have to install the native Firebase SDK using the `npx expo install` command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install @react-native-firebase/app']} />

This will ensure that the `@react-native-firebase/app` dependency version is compatible with the Expo SDK version your project uses.

Also, make sure that you have React Native Firebase set up correctly in your project. For more information on how to set it up, see [Install and initialize React Native Firebase](/guides/using-firebase/#install-and-initialize-react-native-firebase).

### Expo Go: Limitations & configuration

The use of native Firebase Analytics requires that the [Google services configuration](/guides/using-firebase/#step-4-provide-google-services-configuration) is bundled and linked into your app. Since Expo Go loads projects on demand, it does not have the Google services configuration linked into the app bundle.

Expo Go relies on a JavaScript-based implementation of Firebase Analytics to log events. This means that certain native life-cycle events are not recorded in the standard client, but you can still use [`logEvent()`](#analyticslogeventname-properties) method to record events.

You can use Firebase Analytics in Expo Go to verify that you are logging events when you intend to, and with the data you want to attach without having to build an application binary that can be submitted to app stores. To set this up, ensure that the Firebase web configuration is set in **app.json** and that `measurementId` exists in your firebase config.

Here is an example of how to configure **app.json** to add `measurementId`:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "web": {
      "config": {
        "firebase": {
          "apiKey": "AIzaXXXXXXXX-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
          ...
          "measurementId": "G-XXXXXXXXX"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If `measurementId` doesn't exist, then you need to [enable or update Google Analytics](https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/get-started?platform=web) in your Firebase project.

> This limitation only applies to the Expo Go app in the App and Play stores; standalone builds, custom clients & bare apps support the full native Firebase Analytics experience.

## Usage

### Logging event

You can gain deeper insight into what works and what doesn't by using the `logEvent` property.

```ts
/*
 * Say we are in a tinder clone, and a user presses the card to view more
 * information on a user. We should track this event so we can see if people
 * are even using it.
 *
 * If lots of users are opening the card then swiping through photos, just
 * to dismiss again, then we should consider making it possible to look
 * through photos without having to enter the profile.
 */
onPressProfileButton = uid => {
  Analytics.logEvent('ExpandProfile', {
    /*
     * We want to know if the user came from from the swipe card as
     * opposed to from chat or a deep link.
     */
    sender: 'card',
    /*
     * This may be too specific and not very useful, but maybe down the line * we could investigate why a certain user is more popular than others.
     */
    user: uid,
    /*
     * We can use this information later to compare against other events.
     */
    screen: 'profile',
    purpose: 'Viewing more info on a user',
  });
};
```

### React Navigation

You can track the screens your users are interacting with by integrating our recommend navigation library: `react-navigation`. To see an example of how this works, see [Screen tracking](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/en/screen-tracking.html) in React Navigation documentation.

## API

```js
import * as Analytics from 'expo-firebase-analytics';
```

To use web analytics, you'll also need to install the peer dependency **firebase** with `npx expo install firebase`.

<APISection packageName="expo-firebase-analytics" apiName="Analytics" />
