docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/local-authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: LocalAuthentication
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-local-authentication'
packageName: 'expo-local-authentication'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-local-authentication.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-local-authentication`** allows you to use FaceID and TouchID (iOS) or the Biometric Prompt (Android) to authenticate the user with a face or fingerprint scan.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this module requires permissions to access the biometric data for authentication purposes. The `USE_BIOMETRIC` and `USE_FINGERPRINT` permissions are automatically added.

## API

```js
import * as LocalAuthentication from 'expo-local-authentication';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-local-authentication" apiName="LocalAuthentication" />

Commit message:

Add description for Linear Gradient, Linking, LocalAuthentication, Localization, Location, Lottie

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/local-authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: LocalAuthentication
description: A library that provides functionality for implementing the Fingerprint API (Android) or FaceID and TouchID (iOS) to authenticate the user with a face or fingerprint scan.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-local-authentication'
packageName: 'expo-local-authentication'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-local-authentication.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-local-authentication`** allows you to use FaceID and TouchID (iOS) or the Biometric Prompt (Android) to authenticate the user with a face or fingerprint scan.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this module requires permissions to access the biometric data for authentication purposes. The `USE_BIOMETRIC` and `USE_FINGERPRINT` permissions are automatically added.

## API

```js
import * as LocalAuthentication from 'expo-local-authentication';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-local-authentication" apiName="LocalAuthentication" />
