docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/pedometer.mdx, before:

---
title: Pedometer
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`Pedometer` from `expo-sensors` uses the system `hardware.Sensor` on Android and Core Motion on iOS to get the user's step count, and also allows you to subscribe to pedometer updates.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Pedometer' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} >

```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from 'react-native';
import { Pedometer } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [isPedometerAvailable, setIsPedometerAvailable] = useState('checking');
  const [pastStepCount, setPastStepCount] = useState(0);
  const [currentStepCount, setCurrentStepCount] = useState(0);

  const subscribe = async () => {
    const isAvailable = await Pedometer.isAvailableAsync();
    setIsPedometerAvailable(String(isAvailable));

    if (isAvailable) {
      const end = new Date();
      const start = new Date();
      start.setDate(end.getDate() - 1);

      const pastStepCountResult = await Pedometer.getStepCountAsync(start, end);
      if (pastStepCountResult) {
        setPastStepCount(pastStepCountResult.steps);
      }

      return Pedometer.watchStepCount(result => {
        setCurrentStepCount(result.steps);
      });
    }
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    const subscription = subscribe();
    return () => subscription && subscription.remove();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Pedometer.isAvailableAsync(): {isPedometerAvailable}</Text>
      <Text>Steps taken in the last 24 hours: {pastStepCount}</Text>
      <Text>Walk! And watch this go up: {currentStepCount}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    marginTop: 15,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { Pedometer } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-pedometer" apiName="Pedometer" />

## Standalone applications

You'll need to [configure an Android OAuth client](https://developers.google.com/fit/android/get-api-key) for your app on the Google Play console for it to work as a standalone application on the Android platform.

Commit message:

Add description for NavigationBar, NetInfo, Network, Notifications, Pedometer

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/pedometer.mdx, after:

---
title: Pedometer
description: A library that provides access to the device's pedometer sensor.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`Pedometer` from `expo-sensors` uses the system `hardware.Sensor` on Android and Core Motion on iOS to get the user's step count, and also allows you to subscribe to pedometer updates.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Pedometer' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} >

```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from 'react-native';
import { Pedometer } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [isPedometerAvailable, setIsPedometerAvailable] = useState('checking');
  const [pastStepCount, setPastStepCount] = useState(0);
  const [currentStepCount, setCurrentStepCount] = useState(0);

  const subscribe = async () => {
    const isAvailable = await Pedometer.isAvailableAsync();
    setIsPedometerAvailable(String(isAvailable));

    if (isAvailable) {
      const end = new Date();
      const start = new Date();
      start.setDate(end.getDate() - 1);

      const pastStepCountResult = await Pedometer.getStepCountAsync(start, end);
      if (pastStepCountResult) {
        setPastStepCount(pastStepCountResult.steps);
      }

      return Pedometer.watchStepCount(result => {
        setCurrentStepCount(result.steps);
      });
    }
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    const subscription = subscribe();
    return () => subscription && subscription.remove();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Pedometer.isAvailableAsync(): {isPedometerAvailable}</Text>
      <Text>Steps taken in the last 24 hours: {pastStepCount}</Text>
      <Text>Walk! And watch this go up: {currentStepCount}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    marginTop: 15,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { Pedometer } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-pedometer" apiName="Pedometer" />

## Standalone applications

You'll need to [configure an Android OAuth client](https://developers.google.com/fit/android/get-api-key) for your app on the Google Play console for it to work as a standalone application on the Android platform.
