docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/register-root-component.mdx, before:

---
title: registerRootComponent
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo/src/launch'
packageName: 'expo'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

Sets the initial React component to render natively in the app's root React Native view on iOS, Android, and the web. It also adds dev-only debugging tools for use with `npx expo start`.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection hideBareInstructions />

### Manual Android setup

> This is only required if your app does **not** use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) to continuously generate the **android** directory.

Update the **android/app/src/main/your-package/MainActivity.java** file to use the name `main` in the `getMainComponentName` function.

```diff
  @Override
  protected String getMainComponentName() {
+    return "main";
  }
```

### Manual iOS setup

> This is only required if your app does **not** use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) to continuously generate the **ios** directory.

Update the iOS **ios/your-name/AppDelegate.(m|mm|swift)** file to use the **moduleName** `main` in the `createRootViewWithBridge:bridge moduleName:@"main" initialProperties:initProps` line of the `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` function.

## API

```ts
import { registerRootComponent } from 'expo';
```

### `registerRootComponent(component)`

Sets the initial React component to render natively in your app's root React Native view (`RCTView`).

This function does the following:

- Invokes React Native's [AppRegistry.registerComponent](https://reactnative.dev/docs/appregistry.html)
- Invokes React Native web's `AppRegistry.runApplication` on web to render to the root `index.html` file.
- Polyfills the [`process.nextTick`](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick/#process-nexttick) function globally.
- Adds support for using the `fontFamily` React Native style with the `expo-font` package.

This function also adds the following dev-only features that are **removed** in production bundles.

- Adds the Fast Refresh and bundle splitting indicator to the app.
- Asserts if the `expo-updates` package is misconfigured.
- Asserts if `react-native` is not aliased to `react-native-web` when running in the browser.
  {/* TODO: Remove this after https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/18596 */}
- Polyfills `console.log` to send logs to the dev server via `/logs`

#### Arguments

- **component (ReactComponent)** -- The React component class that renders the rest of your app.

#### Returns

No return value.

## Common questions

### What if I want to name my main app file something other than App.js?

{/* NOTE: This is only accurate if we land https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/18381 */}

You can set the `"main"` in **package.json** to any file within your
project. If you do this, then you need to use `registerRootComponent`;
`export default` will not make this component the root for the app
if you are using a custom entry file.

For example, let's say you want to make `"src/main.js"` the entry file
for your app -- maybe you don't like having JavaScript files in the
project root. First, set this in **package.json**:

```json
{
  "main": "src/main.js"
}
```

Then in `"src/main.js"`, make sure you call `registerRootComponent` and
pass in the component you want to render at the root of the app.

```tsx
import { registerRootComponent } from 'expo';
import { View } from 'react-native';

function App() {
  return <View />;
}

registerRootComponent(App);
```

Commit message:

Add description for Picker, Print, Random, Reanimated, rootRegisterComponent, SafeAreaContext, Screen Captuer

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/register-root-component.mdx, after:

---
title: registerRootComponent
description: A universal component that allows setting the initial React component to render natively in the app's root React Native view.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo/src/launch'
packageName: 'expo'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

Sets the initial React component to render natively in the app's root React Native view on iOS, Android, and the web. It also adds dev-only debugging tools for use with `npx expo start`.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection hideBareInstructions />

### Manual Android setup

> This is only required if your app does **not** use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) to continuously generate the **android** directory.

Update the **android/app/src/main/your-package/MainActivity.java** file to use the name `main` in the `getMainComponentName` function.

```diff
  @Override
  protected String getMainComponentName() {
+    return "main";
  }
```

### Manual iOS setup

> This is only required if your app does **not** use [Expo Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild) to continuously generate the **ios** directory.

Update the iOS **ios/your-name/AppDelegate.(m|mm|swift)** file to use the **moduleName** `main` in the `createRootViewWithBridge:bridge moduleName:@"main" initialProperties:initProps` line of the `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` function.

## API

```ts
import { registerRootComponent } from 'expo';
```

### `registerRootComponent(component)`

Sets the initial React component to render natively in your app's root React Native view (`RCTView`).

This function does the following:

- Invokes React Native's [AppRegistry.registerComponent](https://reactnative.dev/docs/appregistry.html)
- Invokes React Native web's `AppRegistry.runApplication` on web to render to the root `index.html` file.
- Polyfills the [`process.nextTick`](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick/#process-nexttick) function globally.
- Adds support for using the `fontFamily` React Native style with the `expo-font` package.

This function also adds the following dev-only features that are **removed** in production bundles.

- Adds the Fast Refresh and bundle splitting indicator to the app.
- Asserts if the `expo-updates` package is misconfigured.
- Asserts if `react-native` is not aliased to `react-native-web` when running in the browser.
  {/* TODO: Remove this after https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/18596 */}
- Polyfills `console.log` to send logs to the dev server via `/logs`

#### Arguments

- **component (ReactComponent)** -- The React component class that renders the rest of your app.

#### Returns

No return value.

## Common questions

### What if I want to name my main app file something other than App.js?

{/* NOTE: This is only accurate if we land https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/18381 */}

You can set the `"main"` in **package.json** to any file within your
project. If you do this, then you need to use `registerRootComponent`;
`export default` will not make this component the root for the app
if you are using a custom entry file.

For example, let's say you want to make `"src/main.js"` the entry file
for your app -- maybe you don't like having JavaScript files in the
project root. First, set this in **package.json**:

```json
{
  "main": "src/main.js"
}
```

Then in `"src/main.js"`, make sure you call `registerRootComponent` and
pass in the component you want to render at the root of the app.

```tsx
import { registerRootComponent } from 'expo';
import { View } from 'react-native';

function App() {
  return <View />;
}

registerRootComponent(App);
```
