docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/storereview.mdx, before:

---
title: StoreReview
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-store-review'
packageName: 'expo-store-review'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-store-review`** provides access to the `SKStoreReviewController` API on iOS, and `ReviewManager` API in Android 5.0+ allowing you to ask the user to rate your app without ever having to leave the app itself.

<ImageSpotlight
  src="/static/images/store-review.png"
  alt="Screenshots of the store review API in action on iOS"
/>

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

> `expo-linking` is a peer dependency and must be installed alongside `expo-store-review`.

<APIInstallSection packageName="expo-store-review expo-linking" />

## Usage

It is important that you follow the [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ratings-and-reviews/) for iOS and [Guidelines](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/in-app-review#when-to-request) for Android when using this API.

**Specifically:**

- Don't call `StoreReview.requestReview()` from a button - instead try calling it after the user has finished some signature interaction in the app.
- Don't spam the user.
- Don't request a review when the user is doing something time sensitive like navigating.
- Don't ask the user any questions before or while presenting the rating button or card.

### Write Reviews

#### iOS

You can redirect someone to the "Write a Review" screen for an app in the iOS App Store by using the query parameter `action=write-review`. For example:

```ts
const itunesItemId = 982107779;
// Open the iOS App Store in the browser -> redirects to App Store on iOS
Linking.openURL(`https://apps.apple.com/app/apple-store/id${itunesItemId}?action=write-review`);
// Open the iOS App Store directly
Linking.openURL(
  `itms-apps://itunes.apple.com/app/viewContentsUserReviews/id${itunesItemId}?action=write-review`
);
```

#### Android

There is no equivalent redirect on Android, you can still open the Play Store to the reviews sections using the query parameter `showAllReviews=true` like this:

```ts
const androidPackageName = 'host.exp.exponent';
// Open the Android Play Store in the browser -> redirects to Play Store on Android
Linking.openURL(
  `https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=${androidPackageName}&showAllReviews=true`
);
// Open the Android Play Store directly
Linking.openURL(`market://details?id=${androidPackageName}&showAllReviews=true`);
```

## API

```js
import * as StoreReview from 'expo-store-review';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-store-review" apiName="StoreReview" />

## Error Codes

### `ERR_STORE_REVIEW_FAILED`

This error occurs when the store review request was not successful.

Commit message:

Add description for Speech, Splash Screen, StatusBar, Store Review, System UI, Stripe, TaskManager

docs/pages/versions/v47.0.0/sdk/storereview.mdx, after:

---
title: StoreReview
description: A library that provides access to native APIs for in-app reviews.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-store-review'
packageName: 'expo-store-review'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-store-review`** provides access to the `SKStoreReviewController` API on iOS, and `ReviewManager` API in Android 5.0+ allowing you to ask the user to rate your app without ever having to leave the app itself.

<ImageSpotlight
  src="/static/images/store-review.png"
  alt="Screenshots of the store review API in action on iOS"
/>

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

> `expo-linking` is a peer dependency and must be installed alongside `expo-store-review`.

<APIInstallSection packageName="expo-store-review expo-linking" />

## Usage

It is important that you follow the [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ratings-and-reviews/) for iOS and [Guidelines](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/in-app-review#when-to-request) for Android when using this API.

**Specifically:**

- Don't call `StoreReview.requestReview()` from a button - instead try calling it after the user has finished some signature interaction in the app.
- Don't spam the user.
- Don't request a review when the user is doing something time sensitive like navigating.
- Don't ask the user any questions before or while presenting the rating button or card.

### Write Reviews

#### iOS

You can redirect someone to the "Write a Review" screen for an app in the iOS App Store by using the query parameter `action=write-review`. For example:

```ts
const itunesItemId = 982107779;
// Open the iOS App Store in the browser -> redirects to App Store on iOS
Linking.openURL(`https://apps.apple.com/app/apple-store/id${itunesItemId}?action=write-review`);
// Open the iOS App Store directly
Linking.openURL(
  `itms-apps://itunes.apple.com/app/viewContentsUserReviews/id${itunesItemId}?action=write-review`
);
```

#### Android

There is no equivalent redirect on Android, you can still open the Play Store to the reviews sections using the query parameter `showAllReviews=true` like this:

```ts
const androidPackageName = 'host.exp.exponent';
// Open the Android Play Store in the browser -> redirects to Play Store on Android
Linking.openURL(
  `https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=${androidPackageName}&showAllReviews=true`
);
// Open the Android Play Store directly
Linking.openURL(`market://details?id=${androidPackageName}&showAllReviews=true`);
```

## API

```js
import * as StoreReview from 'expo-store-review';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-store-review" apiName="StoreReview" />

## Error Codes

### `ERR_STORE_REVIEW_FAILED`

This error occurs when the store review request was not successful.
