docs/pages/guides/configuring-js-engines.mdx, before:

---
title: Configure JS engines
description: A guide on configuring JS engines for both Android and iOS in an Expo project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

JavaScript engines execute your application code and provide various features such as memory management, optimization, and error handling. By default, Expo projects use [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) as the JavaScript engine (in SDK 47 and lower, the default was [JavaScriptCore](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/javascriptcore)). Switching to other engines, such as JSC or V8, for Android and iOS platforms is possible. However, not for the web because the JavaScript engine is included in the web browser.

## Configuring the `jsEngine` through app config

We recommend Hermes because it is purpose built and optimized for React Native apps, and it has the best debugging experience. If you are familiar with the tradeoffs of different JavaScript engines and would like to change away from Hermes, the [`jsEngine`](/versions/latest/config/app/#jsengine) field inside [app config](/workflow/configuration/) allows you to specify the JavaScript engine for your app. The default value is `hermes`.

If you want to use JSC instead, set the `jsEngine` field in the app config:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "jsEngine": "jsc"
  }
}
```

<Collapsible summary="Usage in bare React Native projects">

To change the JavaScript engine in a bare React Native project, update the `expo.jsEngine` value in **android/gradle.properties** and **ios/Podfile.properties.json**.

</Collapsible>

It's important to highlight that changing the JS engine will require you to recompile development builds with `eas build` to work properly.

## Using the V8 engine

To use the V8 engine, you need to install [`react-native-v8`](https://github.com/Kudo/react-native-v8), an opt-in package that adds V8 runtime support for React Native. You can install it by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install react-native-v8 v8-android-jit']} />

Make sure to remove the `jsEngine` field from the app config.

<Collapsible summary="Usage with Expo Prebuild">

Run `npx expo prebuild -p android --clean` after the installation to prebuild again.

</Collapsible>

## Switch JavaScript engine on a specific platform

To use a different engine on one specific platform, you can set the `"jsEngine"` value at the top level and then override it with a different value under the `"android"` or `"ios"` key. The value specified for the platform will take precedence over the common field.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "jsEngine": "hermes",
    "ios": {
      /* @info jsEngine inside platform section will take precedence over the common field */
      "jsEngine": "jsc"
      /* @end */
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

[docs] JS engine change unavailable in Expo go as of SDK 52 (#32034)
# Why

from SDK 52 with the new arch support in expo-go, we will only support
Hermes JS engine

# How

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [ ] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

docs/pages/guides/configuring-js-engines.mdx, after:

---
title: Configure JS engines
description: A guide on configuring JS engines for both Android and iOS in an Expo project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

JavaScript engines execute your application code and provide various features such as memory management, optimization, and error handling. By default, Expo projects use [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) as the JavaScript engine (in SDK 47 and lower, the default was [JavaScriptCore](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/javascriptcore)). Switching to other engines, such as JSC or V8, for Android and iOS platforms is possible. However, not for the web because the JavaScript engine is included in the web browser.

## Configuring the `jsEngine` through app config

> **warning** Changing the JS engine is unavailable in Expo Go from SDK 52 (only the Hermes engine is available). A [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) is required to use this customization.

We recommend Hermes because it is purpose built and optimized for React Native apps, and it has the best debugging experience. If you are familiar with the tradeoffs of different JavaScript engines and would like to change away from Hermes, the [`jsEngine`](/versions/latest/config/app/#jsengine) field inside [app config](/workflow/configuration/) allows you to specify the JavaScript engine for your app. The default value is `hermes`.

If you want to use JSC instead, set the `jsEngine` field in the app config:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "jsEngine": "jsc"
  }
}
```

<Collapsible summary="Usage in bare React Native projects">

To change the JavaScript engine in a bare React Native project, update the `expo.jsEngine` value in **android/gradle.properties** and **ios/Podfile.properties.json**.

</Collapsible>

It's important to highlight that changing the JS engine will require you to recompile development builds with `eas build` to work properly.

## Using the V8 engine

To use the V8 engine, you need to install [`react-native-v8`](https://github.com/Kudo/react-native-v8), an opt-in package that adds V8 runtime support for React Native. You can install it by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install react-native-v8 v8-android-jit']} />

Make sure to remove the `jsEngine` field from the app config.

<Collapsible summary="Usage with Expo Prebuild">

Run `npx expo prebuild -p android --clean` after the installation to prebuild again.

</Collapsible>

## Switch JavaScript engine on a specific platform

To use a different engine on one specific platform, you can set the `"jsEngine"` value at the top level and then override it with a different value under the `"android"` or `"ios"` key. The value specified for the platform will take precedence over the common field.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "jsEngine": "hermes",
    "ios": {
      /* @info jsEngine inside platform section will take precedence over the common field */
      "jsEngine": "jsc"
      /* @end */
    }
  }
}
```
