docs/pages/guides/environment-variables.mdx, before:

---
title: Environment variables in Expo
sidebar_title: Environment variables
description: Learn about different ways to use environment variables in an Expo project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Environment variables are key-value pairs configured outside your source code that allow your app to behave differently depending on the environment. For example, you can enable or disable certain features when building a testing version of your app, or you can switch to a different API endpoint when building for production.

> Are you using [EAS Build](/build/introduction/)? The EAS Build documentation on [environment variables and build secrets](/build-reference/variables.mdx) explains how to work with sensitive values that you would not include in your source code and Git repository. It also explains how to set environment variables for build profiles.

## Using the `extra` field

In the app config, there is an `extra` property. This property is available when you publish your project with EAS Update and when you build with EAS Build.

### Dynamic app config

The following is an example of a [dynamic app config](/versions/latest/config/app/#app-config) that reads from [`process.env`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/process.html#process_process_env) to set an environment variable on the `extra` field.

```js app.config.js
module.exports = {
  name: 'MyApp',
  version: '1.0.0',
  extra: {
    apiUrl: process.env.API_URL,
  },
};
```

With this app config, we can configure the `extra.apiUrl` by running:

```bash
API_URL="https://production.example.com" npx expo start
```

### Reading environment variables

To read `extra` properties in your app, you can use the [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants.mdx) library. It is available on the `Constants.expoConfig` property.

```tsx
import { Button } from 'react-native';
import Constants from 'expo-constants';

function Post() {
  const apiUrl = Constants.expoConfig.extra.apiUrl;

  async function onPress() {
    await fetch(apiUrl, { ... })
  }

  return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Post" />;
}
```

## Using Babel to inline environment variables during build time

An alternative approach is to replace all references of `process.env.VARNAME` with a value using a babel plugin. For example:

```js
// Before build step (in your source code)
const API_URL = process.env.API_URL;

// After build step (in app bundle)
const API_URL = 'https://production.example.com';
```

### Installing and configuring babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables

To use [`babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables`](https://github.com/babel/website/blob/master/docs/plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables.mdx), install the library and add it to your Babel config, then restart your development server and clear the cache.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install --save-dev babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables']} />

```js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['babel-preset-expo'],
    plugins: ['transform-inline-environment-variables'],
  };
};
```

When you modify **babel.config.js**, you should always restart the development server and clear the cache: `npx expo start --clear`. Now you can use environment variables directly in your source code.

### Reading the variables from application code

```tsx
import { Button } from 'react-native';

function Post() {
  const apiUrl = process.env.API_URL;

  async function onPress() {
    await fetch(apiUrl, { ... })
  }

  return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Post" />;
}
```

This approach this plugin will work well with environment variables set in your shell process, but it won't automatically load **.env** files. We recommend using [direnv](https://direnv.net/) and **.envrc** to accomplish that.

## Loading environment variables from a file

If you want to automatically load environment variables from a file in your project rather than setting them in your shell profile or manually when running `npx expo start`, you may want to use an environment variable manager, such as direnv or dotenv.

### direnv

[direnv](https://direnv.net/) automatically loads and unloads environment variables in your shell depending on your current directory. When you `cd` into your project directory, it will load all of the variables as configured in **.envrc**. Due to its tight shell integration, **we highly recommend direnv for the highest level of compatibility with all Expo and EAS CLI tooling**. To get started, see [direnv documentation](https://direnv.net/#getting-started).

### dotenv

[dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) is a library that you import in your project code to load the **.env** file. Since it works at the JavaScript code level, dotenv may be affected by your Node.js environment or how you invoke it from your code. Check the [documentation](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) for the correct usage if you run into issues.

## Security considerations

Never store sensitive secrets in your environment variables. When an end-user runs your app, they have access to all of the code and environment variables in your app. Read more about [storing sensitive info](https://reactnative.dev/docs/security#storing-sensitive-info).

Commit message:

Add instructions for static config and EAS builds
1. Static config is appropriate if variables can be in source code
2. EAS builds appear to require env variables in eas.json, not app config

docs/pages/guides/environment-variables.mdx, after:

---
title: Environment variables in Expo
sidebar_title: Environment variables
description: Learn about different ways to use environment variables in an Expo project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Environment variables are key-value pairs configured outside your source code that allow your app to behave differently depending on the environment. For example, you can enable or disable certain features when building a testing version of your app, or you can switch to a different API endpoint when building for production.

> Are you using [EAS Build](/build/introduction/)? The EAS Build documentation on [environment variables and build secrets](/build-reference/variables.mdx) explains how to work with sensitive values that you would not include in your source code and Git repository. It also explains how to set environment variables for build profiles.

## Using the `extra` field

In the app config, there is an `extra` property. If your variables are non-sensitive and can be checked into source code, you can just add them to the app.json `extra` property for local builds.

For EAS builds, also add your environment variables to build.production.env in eas.json.

### Dynamic app config

The following is an example of a [dynamic app config](/versions/latest/config/app/#app-config) that reads from [`process.env`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/process.html#process_process_env) to set an environment variable on the `extra` field.

```js app.config.js
module.exports = {
  name: 'MyApp',
  version: '1.0.0',
  extra: {
    apiUrl: process.env.API_URL,
  },
};
```

With this app config, we can configure the `extra.apiUrl` by running:

```bash
API_URL="https://production.example.com" npx expo start
```

### Reading environment variables

To read `extra` properties in your app, you can use the [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants.mdx) library. It is available on the `Constants.expoConfig` property.

```tsx
import { Button } from 'react-native';
import Constants from 'expo-constants';

function Post() {
  const apiUrl = Constants.expoConfig.extra.apiUrl;

  async function onPress() {
    await fetch(apiUrl, { ... })
  }

  return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Post" />;
}
```

## Using Babel to inline environment variables during build time

An alternative approach is to replace all references of `process.env.VARNAME` with a value using a babel plugin. For example:

```js
// Before build step (in your source code)
const API_URL = process.env.API_URL;

// After build step (in app bundle)
const API_URL = 'https://production.example.com';
```

### Installing and configuring babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables

To use [`babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables`](https://github.com/babel/website/blob/master/docs/plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables.mdx), install the library and add it to your Babel config, then restart your development server and clear the cache.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install --save-dev babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables']} />

```js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['babel-preset-expo'],
    plugins: ['transform-inline-environment-variables'],
  };
};
```

When you modify **babel.config.js**, you should always restart the development server and clear the cache: `npx expo start --clear`. Now you can use environment variables directly in your source code.

### Reading the variables from application code

```tsx
import { Button } from 'react-native';

function Post() {
  const apiUrl = process.env.API_URL;

  async function onPress() {
    await fetch(apiUrl, { ... })
  }

  return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Post" />;
}
```

This approach this plugin will work well with environment variables set in your shell process, but it won't automatically load **.env** files. We recommend using [direnv](https://direnv.net/) and **.envrc** to accomplish that.

## Loading environment variables from a file

If you want to automatically load environment variables from a file in your project rather than setting them in your shell profile or manually when running `npx expo start`, you may want to use an environment variable manager, such as direnv or dotenv.

### direnv

[direnv](https://direnv.net/) automatically loads and unloads environment variables in your shell depending on your current directory. When you `cd` into your project directory, it will load all of the variables as configured in **.envrc**. Due to its tight shell integration, **we highly recommend direnv for the highest level of compatibility with all Expo and EAS CLI tooling**. To get started, see [direnv documentation](https://direnv.net/#getting-started).

### dotenv

[dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) is a library that you import in your project code to load the **.env** file. Since it works at the JavaScript code level, dotenv may be affected by your Node.js environment or how you invoke it from your code. Check the [documentation](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) for the correct usage if you run into issues.

## Security considerations

Never store sensitive secrets in your environment variables. When an end-user runs your app, they have access to all of the code and environment variables in your app. Read more about [storing sensitive info](https://reactnative.dev/docs/security#storing-sensitive-info).
