docs/pages/guides/react-compiler.mdx, before:

---
title: React Compiler
description: Learn how to enable and use the React Compiler in Expo apps.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** **Warning:** React Compiler is experimental. Currently, it is on hold and we'll soon provide more updates on its usage.

The new [React Compiler](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler) automatically memoizes components and hooks to enable fine-grained reactivity. This can lead to significant performance improvements in your app. The React Compiler is currently experimental and is not enabled by default. You can enable it in your app by following the instructions below.

## Enabling React Compiler

<Step label="1">

[Check how compatible](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler#checking-compatibility) your project is with the React Compiler.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx react-compiler-healthcheck@latest']} />

This will generally verify if your app is following the [**rules of React**](https://react.dev/reference/rules).

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Install `babel-plugin-react-compiler` in your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install babel-plugin-react-compiler']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Toggle on the React Compiler experiment in your app config file:

```json app.json
{
  "experiments": {
    "reactCompiler": true
  }
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Install the React compiler runtime module:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install react-compiler-runtime@beta']} />

</Step>

### Enabling the linter

> In the future, all of these steps below will be automated by Expo CLI.

Additionally, you should use the ESLint plugin to continuously enforce the rules of React in your project.

<Step label="1">

Run [`npx expo lint`](/guides/using-eslint/#eslint) to ensure ESLint is setup in your app, then install the ESLint plugin for React Compiler:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install eslint-plugin-react-compiler']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Update your ESLint configuration to include the plugin:

```js .eslintrc.js
// https://docs.expo.dev/guides/using-eslint/
module.exports = {
  extends: 'expo',
  plugins: ['eslint-plugin-react-compiler'],
  rules: {
    'react-compiler/react-compiler': 'error',
  },
};
```

</Step>

## Incremental adoption

You can incrementally adopt the React Compiler in your app using a few strategies:

<Step label="1">

Configure the Babel plugin to only run on specific files or components. To do this, add the following to your project's Babel configuration:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);

  return {
    presets: [
      [
        'babel-preset-expo',
        {
          'react-compiler': {
            sources: filename => {
              // Match file names to include in the React Compiler.
              return filename.includes('src/path/to/dir');
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```

Whenever you change your **babel.config.js** file, you need to restart the Metro bundler to apply the changes:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo start --clear']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Use the `"use no memo"` directive to opt out of the React Compiler for specific components or files.

```jsx
function MyComponent() {
  'use no memo';

  return <Text>Will not be optimized</Text>;
}
```

</Step>

## Usage

> To better understand how React Compiler works, check out the [React Playground](https://playground.react.dev/).

Improvements are primarily automatic. You can remove instances of `useCallback`, `useMemo`, and `React.memo` in favor of the automatic memoization. Class components will not be optimized. Instead, migrate to function components.

Expo's implementation of the React Compiler will only run on application code (no node modules), and only when bundling for the client (disabled in server rendering).

## Configuration

You can pass additional settings to the React Compiler Babel plugin by using the `react-compiler` object in the Babel configuration:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);

  return {
    presets: [
      [
        'babel-preset-expo',
        {
          'react-compiler': {
            // Passed directly to the React Compiler Babel plugin.
            compilationMode: 'strict',
            panicThreshold: 'all_errors',
          },
          web: {
            'react-compiler': {
              // Web-only settings...
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```

Commit message:

[docs] Update babel config references (#33903)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

- Update multiple docs to add a link to the Babel config reference page.
- In the React compiler guide, add instructions to create a
`babel.config.js` file since the file isn't included in SDK 52 and above
default projects.

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

All links and updated info has been verified by running docs locally.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/guides/react-compiler.mdx, after:

---
title: React Compiler
description: Learn how to enable and use the React Compiler in Expo apps.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** **Warning:** React Compiler is experimental. Currently, it is on hold and we'll soon provide more updates on its usage.

The new [React Compiler](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler) automatically memoizes components and hooks to enable fine-grained reactivity. This can lead to significant performance improvements in your app. The React Compiler is currently experimental and is not enabled by default. You can enable it in your app by following the instructions below.

## Enabling React Compiler

<Step label="1">

[Check how compatible](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler#checking-compatibility) your project is with the React Compiler.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx react-compiler-healthcheck@latest']} />

This will generally verify if your app is following the [**rules of React**](https://react.dev/reference/rules).

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Install `babel-plugin-react-compiler` in your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install babel-plugin-react-compiler']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Toggle on the React Compiler experiment in your app config file:

```json app.json
{
  "experiments": {
    "reactCompiler": true
  }
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Install the React compiler runtime module:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install react-compiler-runtime@beta']} />

</Step>

### Enabling the linter

> In the future, all of the following steps below will be automated by Expo CLI.

Additionally, you should use the ESLint plugin to continuously enforce the rules of React in your project.

<Step label="1">

Run [`npx expo lint`](/guides/using-eslint/#eslint) to ensure ESLint is setup in your app, then install the ESLint plugin for React Compiler:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install eslint-plugin-react-compiler']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Update your ESLint configuration to include the plugin:

```js .eslintrc.js
// https://docs.expo.dev/guides/using-eslint/
module.exports = {
  extends: 'expo',
  plugins: ['eslint-plugin-react-compiler'],
  rules: {
    'react-compiler/react-compiler': 'error',
  },
};
```

</Step>

## Incremental adoption

You can incrementally adopt the React Compiler in your app using a few strategies:

<Step label="1">

Configure the Babel plugin to only run on specific files or components. To do this:

1. If your project doesn't have [**babel.config.js**](/versions/latest/config/babel/), create one by running `npx expo customize babel.config.js`.
2. Add the following configuration to **babel.config.js**:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);

  return {
    presets: [
      [
        'babel-preset-expo',
        {
          'react-compiler': {
            sources: filename => {
              // Match file names to include in the React Compiler.
              return filename.includes('src/path/to/dir');
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```

Whenever you change your **babel.config.js** file, you need to restart the Metro bundler to apply the changes:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo start --clear']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Use the `"use no memo"` directive to opt out of the React Compiler for specific components or files.

```jsx
function MyComponent() {
  'use no memo';

  return <Text>Will not be optimized</Text>;
}
```

</Step>

## Usage

> To better understand how React Compiler works, check out the [React Playground](https://playground.react.dev/).

Improvements are primarily automatic. You can remove instances of `useCallback`, `useMemo`, and `React.memo` in favor of the automatic memoization. Class components will not be optimized. Instead, migrate to function components.

Expo's implementation of the React Compiler will only run on application code (no node modules), and only when bundling for the client (disabled in server rendering).

## Configuration

You can pass additional settings to the React Compiler Babel plugin by using the `react-compiler` object in the Babel configuration:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);

  return {
    presets: [
      [
        'babel-preset-expo',
        {
          'react-compiler': {
            // Passed directly to the React Compiler Babel plugin.
            compilationMode: 'strict',
            panicThreshold: 'all_errors',
          },
          web: {
            'react-compiler': {
              // Web-only settings...
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```
