docs/pages/guides/server-components.mdx, before:

---
title: Using React Server Components in Expo Router apps
sidebar_title: React Server Components
description: Learn about rendering React components on the server in Expo.
---

> Experimentally available in **SDK 52 and above**. This is a very early preview and not ready for production or wide use yet. This initial version is meant to help library authors understand universal React Server Components and add support in their libraries.

React Server Components enable a number of exciting capabilities, including:

- Data fetching with async components and React Suspense.
- Working with secrets and server-side APIs.
- Server-side rendering (SSR) for SEO and performance.
- Build-time rendering to remove unused JS code.

Expo Router enables support for [React Server Components](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/server-components) on all platforms. This is an early preview of a feature that will be enabled by default in Expo Router.

## Prerequisites

Your project must use Expo Router and React Native new architecture (default in SDK 52).

As of SDK 52, there is no strategy for migrating existing projects. We recommend starting with a new project.

## Usage

To use React Server Components in your Expo app, you need to:

1. Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default) in **package.json**.
2. Enable the flag in the project app config:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerComponents": true,
      "reactServerActions": true
    }
  }
}
```

3. Create an initial route **app/index.tsx**:

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This is a server component.
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Index() {
  return <Text>Hello, world!</Text>;
}
```

## Navigating between routes

You can navigate between routes by using the `<Link />` API from Expo Router (not all props are supported yet).

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Link href="/second">
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

## Layout Routes

> Complex built-in layouts such as Stack and Tabs are not yet supported. They will fallback to a `<Slot />`.

Layout routes (**app/\_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function Layout() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Slot />
    </View>
  );
}
```

The `Slot` component is used to render the current route.

## Server Components

Server Components run in the server, meaning they can access Node.js built-ins and server APIs. They can also use async components.

Consider the following component which fetches data and renders it:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Image, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export async function Pokemon() {
  const res = await fetch('https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/2');
  const json = await res.json();
  return (
    <View style={{ padding: 8, borderWidth: 1 }}>
      <Text style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', fontSize: 24 }}>{json.name}</Text>
      <Image source={{ uri: json.sprites.front_default }} style={{ width: 100, height: 100 }} />

      {json.abilities.map(ability => (
        <Text key={ability.ability.name}>- {ability.ability.name}</Text>
      ))}
    </View>
  );
}
```

### Key points

- You cannot use hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, or `useContext` in Server Components.
- You cannot use browser or native APIs in Server Components.
- `"use server"` is not meant to mark a file as a server component. It's used to mark a file as having React Server Actions.
- Server components have access to all environment variables as they run securely off the client.

## Client Components

Since Server Components cannot access native APIs or React Context, you can create a Client Component to use these features. Client Components are created by marking files with the `"use client"` directive at the top.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => {}}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

This file can be imported and used in a Server Component:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import Button from '../components/button';

export default function Index() {
  return <Button title="Press me" />;
}
```

### Key point

You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.

## Server Actions

Server Actions are gated behind an additional experimental flag.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerActions": true,
      "reactServerComponents": true
    }
  }
}
```

Server Actions are functions that run on the server and can be called from client components. Think of them like fully-typed API routes that are easier to write.

They must always be an async function and are marked with `"use server"` at the top of the function.

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Button
      title="Press me"
      onPress={async () => {
        'use server';
        // This code runs on the server.
        console.log('Button pressed');
        return '...';
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

You can create a Client Component to invoke the Server Action:

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title, onPress }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => onPress()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

Server Actions can also be defined in a standalone file (with `"use server"` at the top) and imported from client components:

```tsx components/server-actions.tsx
'use server';

export async function callAction() {
  // ...
}
```

These can be used in a Client Component:

```tsx components/button.tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { callAction } from './server-actions';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => callAction()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

### Key points

- You can only pass serializable data to Server Actions as arguments.
- Server actions can only return serializable data.
- Server Actions run on the server and are a good place to put logic that should not be exposed to the client.

### Rendering in Server Actions

Server Actions in Expo Router can render React components on the server and stream back an **RSC payload** (a custom JSON-like format that's maintained by the React team) for rendering on the client. This is similar to server-side rendering (SSR) on the web.

For example, the following Server Action will render some text:

```tsx components/server-actions.tsx
'use server';

// Optional: Import "server-only" for sanity.
import 'server-only';

import { View, Image, Text } from 'react-native';

export async function renderProfile({
  username,
  accessToken,
}: {
  username: string;
  accessToken: string;
}) {
  // NOTE: Rate limits, GDPR, and other server-side operations can be done here.

  // Fetch some data securely from an API.
  const { name, image } = await fetch(`https://api.example.com/profile/${username}`, {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
      // Use secret environment variables securely as this code will live on the server.
      // The EXPO_PUBLIC_ prefix is not required here.
      'X-Secret': process.env.SECRET,
    },
  }).then(res => res.json());

  // Render
  return (
    <View>
      <Image source={{ uri: image }} />
      <Text>{name}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

This Server Action can be invoked from a Client Component and the contents will be streamed back to the client:

```tsx components/profile.tsx
'use client';

import { useLocalSearchParams } from 'expo-router';
import * as React from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

import { renderProfile } from '@/components/server-actions';

// Loading state that renders while data is being fetched.
function Fallback() {
  return <Text>Loading...</Text>;
}

export default function Profile() {
  const { username } = useLocalSearchParams();
  const { accessToken } = useCustomAuthProvider();

  // Call the server action with the username and access token.
  const profile = React.useMemo(
    () => renderProfile({ username, accessToken }),
    [username, accessToken]
  );

  // Render the profile asynchronously with React Suspense and a custom loading state.
  return <React.Suspense fallback={<Fallback />}>{profile}</React.Suspense>;
}
```

## Library compatibility

Not all libraries are optimized for React Server Components yet. You can use the `"use client" directive to mark a file as a Client Component and use it in a Server Component. This can be used to temporarily workaround compatibility issues.

For example, consider a library `react-native-unoptimized` that does not ship with `"use client"` directives yet. You can workaround this by creating a module and re-exporting each module:

```tsx lib/react-native-unoptimized.tsx
// This directive opts the module into client-side rendering.
'use client';

// Re-exporting the imports from the library.
export { One, Two, Three } from 'react-native-unoptimized';
```

Avoid using `export * from '...'` as this breaks some of the internals of interopting between the server and client.

Modules marked with `"use client"` cannot be dot-accessed from Server Components. This means operations like `StyleSheet.create` or `Platform.OS` will not work on the server without further optimization in the `react-native` package.

## CSS

Expo Router supports importing global CSS and CSS modules in Server Components.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import './styles.css';
import styles from './styles.module.css';

export default function Index() {
  return <div className={styles.container}>Hello, world!</div>;
}
```

The CSS will be hoisted into the client bundle from the server.

## Metadata

React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. In the future, it will be removed when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.

As a result, you can use React 19 features such as placing `<meta>` tags anywhere in your app (web-only).

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <>
      {process.env.EXPO_OS === 'web' && (
        <>
          <meta name="description" content="Hello, world!" />
          <meta property="og:image" content="/og-image.png" />
        </>
      )}
      <MyComponent />
    </>
  );
}
```

You can use this instead of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`.

## Suspense

You can stream back partial UI from the server while waiting for data to load by using React Suspense.

In the following example, a `Loading...` text is returned instantly on the client, and when the `<MediumTask>` finishes rendering one second later, it will replace the text with `Medium task done!`. The `<ExpensiveTask>` will take three seconds to load, and when it finishes, it will replace the text with `Expensive task done!`.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
      <>
        <MediumTask />
        <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
          <ExpensiveTask />
        </Suspense>
      </>
    </Suspense>
  );
}

async function MediumTask() {
  // Wait one second before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 1000));
  return <Text>Medium task done!</Text>;
}

async function ExpensiveTask() {
  // Wait three seconds before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 3000));
  return <Text>Expensive task done!</Text>;
}
```

If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control the loading state incrementally. Sometimes, it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), while other times, it is beneficial to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).

## Build-time rendering

Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering Server Components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering. These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export const unstable_settings = {
  // This component will be rendered at build-time and never re-rendered in production.
  render: 'static',
};

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

- `render: 'static'` will render the component at build-time and never re-render it in production. This is similar to how classic static site generators work.
- `render: 'dynamic'` will render the component at request-time and re-render it on every request. This is similar to how server-side rendering works.

If you want client-side rendering, move your data fetching to a Client Component and control the rendering locally.

Routes marked with `static` output will be rendered at build-time and embeded in the native binary. This enables rendering routes without making a server request (because the server request was made when the app was downloaded).

The current default is `dynamic` rendering. In the future, we'll change the caching and optimizations to be smarter and more automatic.

## Reloading server components

Server Components are reloaded on every request in development. This means that you can make changes to your server components and see them reflected immediately in the client runtime. You may want to manually trigger a reload event programatically to refetch data or re-render the component. This can be done using the `router.reload()` function from the `useRouter` hook.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { useRouter } from 'expo-router';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export function Button() {
  const router = useRouter();
  return (
    <Text
      onPress={() => {
        // Reload the current route.
        router.reload();
      }}>
      Reload current route
    </Text>
  );
}
```

If the route was rendered at build-time, it will not be re-rendered on the client. This is because the rendering code is not included in the production server.

## Secrets

Server Components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This will assert if the module runs on the client.
import 'server-only';

import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default async function Index() {
  // This code only runs on the server.
  const data = await fetch('https://my-endpoint/', {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.SECRET}`,
    },
  });

  // ...
  return <div />;
}
```

You can define the secret in your **.env** file:

```text .env
SECRET=123
```

## Platform detection

To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` environment variable. For example, `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and won't work as expected.

You can detect if code is running in the server by performing a `typeof window === 'undefined'` check. This will always return `true` on client devices and `false` on the server.

## Testing with jest

Library authors can test their modules support Server Components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).

## Known limitations

> This is a very early technical preview that we're actively developing.

- There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts, `Stack`, `Tabs`, and `Drawer`, do not support Server Components yet.
- Expo Snack does not support bundling Server Components.
- EAS Update does not work with Server Components yet.
- DOM components cannot use Server Components yet.
- Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
- Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet.
- `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.
- HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).
- `StyleSheet.create` and `Platform.OS` are not supported on native. Use standard objects for styles and `process.env.EXPO_OS` for platform detection.
- Server Actions that invoke other server actions are not supported on Hermes due to a limitation in the Hermes runtime. This may be resolved with Static Hermes.

## Deployment

> Avoid using universal server components in production as they are not stable yet. We'll streamline all of this to a single command in the future.

### Web

To deploy your website to production, run: `npx expo export -p web`.

You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express).

### Native

Production exports for React Server Components on native are not yet supported. This is planned for Expo SDK 53.

Commit message:

feat(babel): add default export server action support (#32458)
# Why

Support defining server actions with `export default async function
Foo() {}`.

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

# How

- Update the babel transform to deconstruct the syntax.
- Avoid transforming typescript types as server actions.

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

# Test Plan

- Added new babel tests and updated the E2E test.

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [ ] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

---------

Co-authored-by: Expo Bot <34669131+expo-bot@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/pages/guides/server-components.mdx, after:

---
title: Using React Server Components in Expo Router apps
sidebar_title: React Server Components
description: Learn about rendering React components on the server in Expo.
---

> Experimentally available in **SDK 52 and above**. This is a very early preview and not ready for production or wide use yet. This initial version is meant to help library authors understand universal React Server Components and add support in their libraries.

React Server Components enable a number of exciting capabilities, including:

- Data fetching with async components and React Suspense.
- Working with secrets and server-side APIs.
- Server-side rendering (SSR) for SEO and performance.
- Build-time rendering to remove unused JS code.

Expo Router enables support for [React Server Components](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/server-components) on all platforms. This is an early preview of a feature that will be enabled by default in Expo Router.

## Prerequisites

Your project must use Expo Router and React Native new architecture (default in SDK 52).

As of SDK 52, there is no strategy for migrating existing projects. We recommend starting with a new project.

## Usage

To use React Server Components in your Expo app, you need to:

1. Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default) in **package.json**.
2. Enable the flag in the project app config:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerComponents": true,
      "reactServerActions": true
    }
  }
}
```

3. Create an initial route **app/index.tsx**:

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This is a server component.
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Index() {
  return <Text>Hello, world!</Text>;
}
```

## Navigating between routes

You can navigate between routes by using the `<Link />` API from Expo Router (not all props are supported yet).

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Link href="/second">
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

## Layout Routes

> Complex built-in layouts such as Stack and Tabs are not yet supported. They will fallback to a `<Slot />`.

Layout routes (**app/\_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function Layout() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Slot />
    </View>
  );
}
```

The `Slot` component is used to render the current route.

## Server Components

Server Components run in the server, meaning they can access Node.js built-ins and server APIs. They can also use async components.

Consider the following component which fetches data and renders it:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Image, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export async function Pokemon() {
  const res = await fetch('https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/2');
  const json = await res.json();
  return (
    <View style={{ padding: 8, borderWidth: 1 }}>
      <Text style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', fontSize: 24 }}>{json.name}</Text>
      <Image source={{ uri: json.sprites.front_default }} style={{ width: 100, height: 100 }} />

      {json.abilities.map(ability => (
        <Text key={ability.ability.name}>- {ability.ability.name}</Text>
      ))}
    </View>
  );
}
```

### Key points

- You cannot use hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, or `useContext` in Server Components.
- You cannot use browser or native APIs in Server Components.
- `"use server"` is not meant to mark a file as a server component. It's used to mark a file as having React Server Actions.
- Server components have access to all environment variables as they run securely off the client.

## Client Components

Since Server Components cannot access native APIs or React Context, you can create a Client Component to use these features. Client Components are created by marking files with the `"use client"` directive at the top.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => {}}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

This file can be imported and used in a Server Component:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import Button from '../components/button';

export default function Index() {
  return <Button title="Press me" />;
}
```

### Key point

You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.

## Server Actions

Server Actions are gated behind an additional experimental flag.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerActions": true,
      "reactServerComponents": true
    }
  }
}
```

Server Actions are functions that run on the server and can be called from client components. Think of them like fully-typed API routes that are easier to write.

They must always be an async function and are marked with `"use server"` at the top of the function.

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Button
      title="Press me"
      onPress={async () => {
        'use server';
        // This code runs on the server.
        console.log('Button pressed');
        return '...';
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

You can create a Client Component to invoke the Server Action:

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title, onPress }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => onPress()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

Server Actions can also be defined in a standalone file (with `"use server"` at the top) and imported from client components:

```tsx components/server-actions.tsx
'use server';

export async function callAction() {
  // ...
}
```

These can be used in a Client Component:

```tsx components/button.tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { callAction } from './server-actions';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => callAction()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

### Key points

- You can only pass serializable data to Server Actions as arguments.
- Server actions can only return serializable data.
- Server Actions run on the server and are a good place to put logic that should not be exposed to the client.
- Server Actions currently cannot be used inside of DOM components

### Rendering in Server Actions

Server Actions in Expo Router can render React components on the server and stream back an **RSC payload** (a custom JSON-like format that's maintained by the React team) for rendering on the client. This is similar to server-side rendering (SSR) on the web.

For example, the following Server Action will render some text:

```tsx components/server-actions.tsx
'use server';

// Optional: Import "server-only" for sanity.
import 'server-only';

import { View, Image, Text } from 'react-native';

export async function renderProfile({
  username,
  accessToken,
}: {
  username: string;
  accessToken: string;
}) {
  // NOTE: Rate limits, GDPR, and other server-side operations can be done here.

  // Fetch some data securely from an API.
  const { name, image } = await fetch(`https://api.example.com/profile/${username}`, {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
      // Use secret environment variables securely as this code will live on the server.
      // The EXPO_PUBLIC_ prefix is not required here.
      'X-Secret': process.env.SECRET,
    },
  }).then(res => res.json());

  // Render
  return (
    <View>
      <Image source={{ uri: image }} />
      <Text>{name}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

This Server Action can be invoked from a Client Component and the contents will be streamed back to the client:

```tsx components/profile.tsx
'use client';

import { useLocalSearchParams } from 'expo-router';
import * as React from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

import { renderProfile } from '@/components/server-actions';

// Loading state that renders while data is being fetched.
function Fallback() {
  return <Text>Loading...</Text>;
}

export default function Profile() {
  const { username } = useLocalSearchParams();
  const { accessToken } = useCustomAuthProvider();

  // Call the server action with the username and access token.
  const profile = React.useMemo(
    () => renderProfile({ username, accessToken }),
    [username, accessToken]
  );

  // Render the profile asynchronously with React Suspense and a custom loading state.
  return <React.Suspense fallback={<Fallback />}>{profile}</React.Suspense>;
}
```

## Library compatibility

Not all libraries are optimized for React Server Components yet. You can use the `"use client" directive to mark a file as a Client Component and use it in a Server Component. This can be used to temporarily workaround compatibility issues.

For example, consider a library `react-native-unoptimized` that does not ship with `"use client"` directives yet. You can workaround this by creating a module and re-exporting each module:

```tsx lib/react-native-unoptimized.tsx
// This directive opts the module into client-side rendering.
'use client';

// Re-exporting the imports from the library.
export { One, Two, Three } from 'react-native-unoptimized';
```

Avoid using `export * from '...'` as this breaks some of the internals of interopting between the server and client.

Modules marked with `"use client"` cannot be dot-accessed from Server Components. This means operations like `StyleSheet.create` or `Platform.OS` will not work on the server without further optimization in the `react-native` package.

## CSS

Expo Router supports importing global CSS and CSS modules in Server Components.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import './styles.css';
import styles from './styles.module.css';

export default function Index() {
  return <div className={styles.container}>Hello, world!</div>;
}
```

The CSS will be hoisted into the client bundle from the server.

## Metadata

React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. In the future, it will be removed when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.

As a result, you can use React 19 features such as placing `<meta>` tags anywhere in your app (web-only).

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <>
      {process.env.EXPO_OS === 'web' && (
        <>
          <meta name="description" content="Hello, world!" />
          <meta property="og:image" content="/og-image.png" />
        </>
      )}
      <MyComponent />
    </>
  );
}
```

You can use this instead of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`.

## Suspense

You can stream back partial UI from the server while waiting for data to load by using React Suspense.

In the following example, a `Loading...` text is returned instantly on the client, and when the `<MediumTask>` finishes rendering one second later, it will replace the text with `Medium task done!`. The `<ExpensiveTask>` will take three seconds to load, and when it finishes, it will replace the text with `Expensive task done!`.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
      <>
        <MediumTask />
        <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
          <ExpensiveTask />
        </Suspense>
      </>
    </Suspense>
  );
}

async function MediumTask() {
  // Wait one second before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 1000));
  return <Text>Medium task done!</Text>;
}

async function ExpensiveTask() {
  // Wait three seconds before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 3000));
  return <Text>Expensive task done!</Text>;
}
```

If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control the loading state incrementally. Sometimes, it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), while other times, it is beneficial to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).

## Build-time rendering

Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering Server Components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering. These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export const unstable_settings = {
  // This component will be rendered at build-time and never re-rendered in production.
  render: 'static',
};

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

- `render: 'static'` will render the component at build-time and never re-render it in production. This is similar to how classic static site generators work.
- `render: 'dynamic'` will render the component at request-time and re-render it on every request. This is similar to how server-side rendering works.

If you want client-side rendering, move your data fetching to a Client Component and control the rendering locally.

Routes marked with `static` output will be rendered at build-time and embeded in the native binary. This enables rendering routes without making a server request (because the server request was made when the app was downloaded).

The current default is `dynamic` rendering. In the future, we'll change the caching and optimizations to be smarter and more automatic.

## Reloading server components

Server Components are reloaded on every request in development. This means that you can make changes to your server components and see them reflected immediately in the client runtime. You may want to manually trigger a reload event programatically to refetch data or re-render the component. This can be done using the `router.reload()` function from the `useRouter` hook.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { useRouter } from 'expo-router';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export function Button() {
  const router = useRouter();
  return (
    <Text
      onPress={() => {
        // Reload the current route.
        router.reload();
      }}>
      Reload current route
    </Text>
  );
}
```

If the route was rendered at build-time, it will not be re-rendered on the client. This is because the rendering code is not included in the production server.

## Secrets

Server Components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This will assert if the module runs on the client.
import 'server-only';

import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default async function Index() {
  // This code only runs on the server.
  const data = await fetch('https://my-endpoint/', {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.SECRET}`,
    },
  });

  // ...
  return <div />;
}
```

You can define the secret in your **.env** file:

```text .env
SECRET=123
```

## Platform detection

To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` environment variable. For example, `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and won't work as expected.

You can detect if code is running in the server by performing a `typeof window === 'undefined'` check. This will always return `true` on client devices and `false` on the server.

## Testing with jest

Library authors can test their modules support Server Components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).

## Known limitations

> This is a very early technical preview that we're actively developing.

- There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts, `Stack`, `Tabs`, and `Drawer`, do not support Server Components yet.
- Expo Snack does not support bundling Server Components.
- EAS Update does not work with Server Components yet.
- DOM components cannot use Server Components yet.
- Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
- Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet.
- `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.
- HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).
- `StyleSheet.create` and `Platform.OS` are not supported on native. Use standard objects for styles and `process.env.EXPO_OS` for platform detection.
- Server Actions that invoke other server actions are not supported on Hermes due to a limitation in the Hermes runtime. This may be resolved with Static Hermes.

## Deployment

> Avoid using universal server components in production as they are not stable yet. We'll streamline all of this to a single command in the future.

### Web

To deploy your website to production, run: `npx expo export -p web`.

You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express).

### Native

Production exports for React Server Components on native are not yet supported. This is planned for Expo SDK 53.
