docs/pages/guides/store-assets.mdx, before:

---
title: Create app store assets
description: Learn how to create screenshots and previews for your app's store pages.
sidebar_title: App store assets
---

import { FigmaIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/FigmaIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Before submitting your app to the Google Play Store and Apple App Store, you need to provide some assets for your store listing page. The goal of these images and videos is to give your prospective users an idea of what your app experience is going to be like.

You will need to upload app screenshots for both app stores. Even though they are called "app screenshots" on both stores, they _do_ have to include accurate visuals of your app. There is no rule citing that these images have to be screenshots taken on specific devices.

Both app stores have requirements on image format and size. However, within these restrictions, you can be creative. For example, a common approach is to design the assets using a design tool such as Figma and incorporate actual app screenshots (or designs) with supplementary messaging.

## Different approaches for creating "screenshots"

There are three commonly used approaches to creating your store screenshots. You can choose whichever approach works best for your app's needs and resources.

### Option 1: actual screenshots

The most straightforward option &mdash; open up your app on a real device and take screenshots.

**Pros**: Straightforward to do. Most accurate representation of your app.

**Cons**: Need to load the app on different devices for a full range of screenshots.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Expo Go Apple App Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the Expo Go Apple App Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/expo-go-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### Option 2: screenshots within a design

The majority of apps use this approach. It involves taking screenshots of the app (or in some cases, using existing designs instead of actual screenshots) and embedding them in the store assets along with appropriate messaging.

**Pros:** Allows to convey additional messaging within the assets.

**Cons:** The assets need to be created using a design program.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Brex Apple App Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the Brex Apple App Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/brex-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### Option 3: make it fancy

In this option, on the app store pages, you can incorporate elements of your app design and creative messaging to highlight your product.

**Pros:** You can make your store page creative and fun.

**Cons:** Need an experienced designer to create and maintain the assets.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the MS Office Apple Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the MS Office Apple Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/office-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

## Google Play Store Asset Requirements

Google has specific requirements for the store asset format and dimensions, which are different from Apple's. For the most up-to-date specifications, see [official documentation](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9866151) for detailed requirements for your Google Play Store assets.

<BoxLink
  Icon={FigmaIcon}
  title="Store assets Figma template"
  description="See our template for a summary of the minimum asset requirements."
  href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/1352686667495694112"
/>

### App icon

Unlike on the Apple App Store, where the app icon is always taken automatically from the app bundle, on the Google Play Store, you must also upload a separate App Icon for your store listing.

### Feature graphic

A feature graphic must be provided to publish your Store Listing. It is a banner that is displayed at the top of your store listing page.

### Screenshots

You need to upload at least four screenshots to publish your app.

### Video (optional)

You can add one preview video to your Store Listing. The video needs to be uploaded to YouTube, and you can add it by entering a YouTube URL in the **preview video** field.

## iOS App Store Asset Requirements

For the iOS App Store, you can upload screenshots (images) and previews (videos). For each, Apple requires specific widths and heights. Make sure to reference the [Screenshot specifications from Apple](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications/) for the exact sizing. Even a single pixel-off will mean you cannot submit the images.

<BoxLink
  Icon={FigmaIcon}
  title="Store aseets Figma template"
  description="See our template for a summary of the minimum asset requirements."
  href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/1352686667495694112"
/>

### Screenshots

At a minimum, Apple requires you to upload two screenshots for an iPhone without the notch and two screenshots for an iPhone with the notch. You can upload up to ten screenshots per localization. If your app is available in multiple languages and your screenshots include text, you should upload screenshots with the appropriate language for each localization.

If your app runs on an iPad, you must also provide iPad-sized screenshots.

Screenshots can be portrait or landscape.

### Preview (optional)

You can include An app preview video to demonstrate how your app works. You can add up to three app previews for each screen size.

See [App Preview Specifications](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications/) from Apple documentation for a summary of video size and format.

## Bare minimum

Below is the bare minimum needed to publish your apps.

### Play Store - Android

| Type            | Amount | Dimensions                                                          | Requirements                                        |
| --------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Icon        | 1      | 512 × 512                                                           | 32-bit PNG (with alpha); Maximum file size: 1024 KB |
| Feature Graphic | 1      | 1024 × 500                                                          | JPEG or 24-bit PNG (no alpha)                       |
| Screenshots     | 4-10   | minimum: 1024 × 500<br/>maximum width: 3840px<br/>9:16 aspect ratio | JPEG or 24-bit PNG (no alpha)                       |

### App Store - iPhone

| Type                                   | Amount | Dimensions                                  | Requirements          |
| -------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Screenshots (iPhone without the notch) | 2-10   | 1242 × 2208                                 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |
| Screenshots (iPhone with the notch)    | 2-10   | 1290 × 2796<br/>1284 × 2778<br/>1242 × 2688 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |

### App Store - iPad

If your app also runs on an iPad, you need to supply additional screenshots.

| Type        | Amount | Dimensions  | Requirements          |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------- | --------------------- |
| Screenshots | 2-10   | 2048 × 2732 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |

Commit message:

[docs] Update required sizes for app store screenshots (#32561)
# Why

Resolves https://github.com/expo/expo/issues/32364

With the latest release, Apple have updated the app store screenshots
requirements:

- the 5'5 screenshots (iPhone without a notch) are no longer required
- must upload screenshots for the iPhone with the dynamic island
- an additional size option has been added to the iPad screenshots

# How

Updated the docs to reflect the change. The Figma template is also
updated.

# Test Plan

Review against the updated
[requirements](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications/).

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [ ] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

docs/pages/guides/store-assets.mdx, after:

---
title: Create app store assets
description: Learn how to create screenshots and previews for your app's store pages.
sidebar_title: App store assets
---

import { FigmaIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/FigmaIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Before submitting your app to the Google Play Store and Apple App Store, you need to provide some assets for your store listing page. The goal of these images and videos is to give your prospective users an idea of what your app experience is going to be like.

You will need to upload app screenshots for both app stores. Even though they are called "app screenshots" on both stores, they _do_ have to include accurate visuals of your app. There is no rule citing that these images have to be screenshots taken on specific devices.

Both app stores have requirements on image format and size. However, within these restrictions, you can be creative. For example, a common approach is to design the assets using a design tool such as Figma and incorporate actual app screenshots (or designs) with supplementary messaging.

## Different approaches for creating "screenshots"

There are three commonly used approaches to creating your store screenshots. You can choose whichever approach works best for your app's needs and resources.

### Option 1: actual screenshots

The most straightforward option &mdash; open up your app on a real device and take screenshots.

**Pros**: Straightforward to do. Most accurate representation of your app.

**Cons**: Need to load the app on different devices for a full range of screenshots.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Expo Go Apple App Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the Expo Go Apple App Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/expo-go-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### Option 2: screenshots within a design

The majority of apps use this approach. It involves taking screenshots of the app (or in some cases, using existing designs instead of actual screenshots) and embedding them in the store assets along with appropriate messaging.

**Pros:** Allows to convey additional messaging within the assets.

**Cons:** The assets need to be created using a design program.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Brex Apple App Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the Brex Apple App Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/brex-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### Option 3: make it fancy

In this option, on the app store pages, you can incorporate elements of your app design and creative messaging to highlight your product.

**Pros:** You can make your store page creative and fun.

**Cons:** Need an experienced designer to create and maintain the assets.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the MS Office Apple Store Listing Page"
  caption="Screenshots of the MS Office Apple Store Listing Page."
  src="/static/images/guides/office-screenshots.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

## Google Play Store Asset Requirements

Google has specific requirements for the store asset format and dimensions, which are different from Apple's. For the most up-to-date specifications, see [official documentation](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9866151) for detailed requirements for your Google Play Store assets.

<BoxLink
  Icon={FigmaIcon}
  title="Store assets Figma template"
  description="See our template for a summary of the minimum asset requirements."
  href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/1352686667495694112"
/>

### App icon

Unlike on the Apple App Store, where the app icon is always taken automatically from the app bundle, on the Google Play Store, you must also upload a separate App Icon for your store listing.

### Feature graphic

A feature graphic must be provided to publish your Store Listing. It is a banner that is displayed at the top of your store listing page.

### Screenshots

You need to upload at least four screenshots to publish your app.

### Video (optional)

You can add one preview video to your Store Listing. The video needs to be uploaded to YouTube, and you can add it by entering a YouTube URL in the **preview video** field.

## iOS App Store Asset Requirements

For the iOS App Store, you can upload screenshots (images) and previews (videos). For each, Apple requires specific widths and heights. Make sure to reference the [Screenshot specifications from Apple](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications/) for the exact sizing. Even a single pixel-off will mean you cannot submit the images.

<BoxLink
  Icon={FigmaIcon}
  title="Store aseets Figma template"
  description="See our template for a summary of the minimum asset requirements."
  href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/1352686667495694112"
/>

### Screenshots

At a minimum, Apple requires you to upload screenshots for iPhone with the dynamic island (6.9 inch). You can optionally upload additional screenshots for other screen sizes. If specific screenshots are not provided, scaled down screenshots from the closest uploaded size will be used instead.

If your app runs on iPad, you must also provide one set of iPad screenshots (13 inch).

You can upload up to ten screenshots per localization. If your app is available in multiple languages and your screenshots include text, you should upload screenshots with the appropriate language for each localization.

Screenshots can be portrait or landscape.

### Preview (optional)

You can include An app preview video to demonstrate how your app works. You can add up to three app previews for each screen size.

See [App Preview Specifications](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications/) from Apple documentation for a summary of video size and format.

## Bare minimum

Below is the bare minimum needed to publish your apps.

### Play Store - Android

| Type            | Amount | Dimensions                                                          | Requirements                                        |
| --------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Icon        | 1      | 512 × 512                                                           | 32-bit PNG (with alpha); Maximum file size: 1024 KB |
| Feature Graphic | 1      | 1024 × 500                                                          | JPEG or 24-bit PNG (no alpha)                       |
| Screenshots     | 4-10   | minimum: 1024 × 500<br/>maximum width: 3840px<br/>9:16 aspect ratio | JPEG or 24-bit PNG (no alpha)                       |

### App Store - iPhone

| Type                                         | Amount | Dimensions (coose one)      | Requirements          |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------ | --------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Screenshots (iPhone with the dynamic island) | 2-10   | 1320 × 2868<br/>1290 × 2796 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |

### App Store - iPad

If your app also runs on an iPad, you need to supply additional screenshots.

| Type        | Amount | Dimensions (choose one)     | Requirements          |
| ----------- | ------ | --------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Screenshots | 2-10   | 2064 × 2752<br/>2048 × 2732 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |
