docs/pages/guides/using-sentry.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Sentry
maxHeadingDepth: 4
description: A guide on installing and configuring Sentry for crash reporting.
---

import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';

[Sentry](http://getsentry.com/) is a crash reporting platform that provides you with "real-time insight into production deployments with info to reproduce and fix crashes".

It notifies you of exceptions or errors that your users run into while using your app, and organizes them for you on a web dashboard. Reported exceptions include stacktraces, device info, version, and other relevant context automatically; you can also provide additional context that is specific to your application, like the current route and user id.

## Why sentry-expo?

- Sentry treats React Native as a first-class citizen and we have collaborated with Sentry to make sure Expo is, too.
- It's very easy to set up and use
- It scales to meet the demands of even the largest projects.
- We trust it for our projects at Expo.
- It is free for up to 5,000 events per month.
- It streamlines your error-reporting code across iOS, Android, and web

> Native crash reporting is not available in Expo Go, it is only available in standalone builds or development builds.

<PlatformsSection title="Platform compatibility" android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installing and configuring Sentry

<Step label="1">

### Sign up for a Sentry account and create a project

Before getting real-time updates on errors and making your app generally incredible, you'll need to make sure you've created a Sentry project. Here's how to do that:

<Step label="1.1">

[Sign up for Sentry](https://sentry.io/signup/) (it's free), and create a project in your
Dashboard. Take note of your **organization slug**, **project name**, and **`DSN`** as you'll need
them later:

- **organization slug** is available in your **Organization settings** tab
- **project name** is available in your project's **Settings** > **Projects** tab (find it in the list)
- **`DSN`** is available in your project's **Settings** > **Projects** > **Project name** > **Client Keys
  (DSN)** tab.

</Step>

<Step label="1.2">

Go to the [Sentry API section](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/), and create an
**auth token**. The token requires the scopes: `org:read`, `project:releases`, and
`project:write`. Save them.

</Step>

Once you have each of these: organization slug, project name, DSN, and auth token, you're all set!

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Installation

In your project directory, run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install sentry-expo']} />

`sentry-expo` also requires some additional Expo module packages. To install them, run:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ npx expo install expo-application expo-constants expo-device expo-updates @sentry/react-native',
  ]}
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Code

#### Initialization

Add the following to your app's main file such as **App.js**:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN HERE',
  enableInExpoDevelopment: true,
  debug: true, // If `true`, Sentry will try to print out useful debugging information if something goes wrong with sending the event. Set it to `false` in production
});
```

#### Usage

Depending on which platform you are on (mobile or web), use the following methods to access any `@sentry/*` methods for instrumentation, performance, capturing exceptions and so on:

- For React Native, access any `@sentry/react-native` exports with `Sentry.Native.*`
- For web, access any `@sentry/browser` exports with `Sentry.Browser.*`

```js
// Access any @sentry/react-native exports via:
// Sentry.Native.*

// Access any @sentry/browser exports via:
// Sentry.Browser.*

// The following example uses `captureException()` from Sentry.Native.* to capture errors:
try {
  // your code
} catch (error) {
  Sentry.Native.captureException(error);
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### App Configuration

Configuring sentry-expo is done through the config plugin in your **app.json** or **app.config.js**.

<ConfigReactNative>

If you use bare workflow, **you should not use the `plugins` property in app.json**. Instead, use `yarn sentry-wizard -i reactNative -p ios android` to configure your native projects. This `sentry-wizard` command will add an extra:

```js
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN',
});
```

to your root project file (usually **App.js**), so make sure you remove it (but keep the `sentry-expo` import and original `Sentry.init` call!)

</ConfigReactNative>

#### Configure a `postPublish` hook

Add `expo.hooks` property to your project's **app.json** or **app.config.js** file:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "hooks": {
      "postPublish": [
        {
          "file": "sentry-expo/upload-sourcemaps",
          "config": {
            "organization": "sentry org slug, or use the `SENTRY_ORG` environment variable",
            "project": "sentry project name, or use the `SENTRY_PROJECT` environment variable"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

To upload the source map to Sentry, you must create a [Sentry auth token](https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/configuration/). After creating your Sentry auth token [here](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/), you can configure this token through the `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable in [EAS Build](/build-reference/variables/#using-secrets-in-environment-variables).

> **warning** Never commit secrets to your repository. Keep the Sentry auth token in a safe place, outside your repository and use the environment variable instead.

Besides the auth token, you can also configure the following options through environment variables:

- organization → `SENTRY_ORG`
- project → `SENTRY_PROJECT`

<Collapsible summary="Additional configuration options">

In addition to the required config fields above, you can also provide these **optional** fields:

- `setCommits` : boolean value indicating whether or not to tell Sentry about which commits are associated with a new release. This allows Sentry to pinpoint which commits likely caused an issue.
- `deployEnv` : string indicating the deploy environment. This will automatically send an email to Sentry users who have committed to the release that is being deployed.
- `distribution` : The name/value to give your distribution (you can think of this as a sub-release). Expo defaults to using your `version` from app.json. **If you provide a custom `distribution`, you must pass the same value to `dist` in your call to `Sentry.init()`, otherwise you will not see stacktraces in your error reports.**
- `release` : The name you'd like to give your release (e.g. `release-feature-ABC`). This defaults to a unique `revisionId` of your JS bundle. **If you provide a custom `release`, you must pass in the same `release` value to `Sentry.init()`, otherwise you will not see stacktraces in your error reports.**
- `url` : your Sentry URL, only necessary when self-hosting Sentry.

> You can also use environment variables for your config, if you prefer:
>
> - setCommits → `SENTRY_SET_COMMITS`
> - deployEnv → `SENTRY_DEPLOY_ENV`
> - distribution → `SENTRY_DIST`
> - release → `SENTRY_RELEASE`
> - url → `SENTRY_URL`

</Collapsible>

#### Add the Config Plugin

Add `expo.plugins` to your project's **app.json** or **app.config.js** file:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": ["sentry-expo"]
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
  }
}
```

</Step>

## Source Maps

{/* TODO: Drop `expo publish` mention */}

With the `postPublish` hook in place, now all you need to do is run `expo publish` and the source maps will be uploaded automatically. We automatically assign a unique release version for Sentry each time you hit publish, based on the version you specify in **app.json** and a release id on our backend -- this means that if you forget to update the version but hit publish, you will still get a unique Sentry release.

> This hook can also be used as a `postExport` hook if you're [self-hosting your updates](../distribution/custom-updates-server.mdx).

### Uploading source maps at build time

With `expo-updates`, release builds of both iOS and Android apps will create and embed a new update from your JavaScript source at build-time. **This new update will not be published automatically** and will exist only in the binary with which it was bundled. Since it isn't published, the source maps aren't uploaded in the usual way like they are when you run `expo publish` (actually, we are relying on Sentry's native scripts to handle that). Because of this you have some extra things to be aware of:

- Your `release` will automatically be set to Sentry's expected value- `${bundleIdentifier}@${version}+${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${androidPackage}@${version}+${versionCode}` (Android).
- Your `dist` will automatically be set to Sentry's expected value: `${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${versionCode}` (Android).
- The configuration for build time source maps comes from the **android/sentry.properties** and **ios/sentry.properties** files. For more information, see [Sentry's documentation](https://docs.sentry.io/clients/java/config/#configuration-via-properties-file). Manual configuration is only required for bare projects, the [sentry-expo config plugin handles it otherwise](#add-the-config-plugin).
- Configuration for `expo publish` and `npx expo export` for projects is done via **app.json**, whether using bare workflow or not.

Skipping or misconfiguring either of these can lead to invalid source maps, and you won't see human-readable stacktraces in your errors.

### Uploading source maps for updates

> This requires SDK 47, with `sentry-expo@6.0.0` or above and `expo-updates@0.15.5` or above.

If you're using EAS Update, or if you're self-hosting your updates (this means you run `npx expo export` manually), you need to take the following steps to upload the source maps for your update to Sentry:

- Run `eas update`. This will generate a **dist** folder in your project root, which contains your JavaScript bundles and source maps. This command will also output the 'Android update ID' and 'iOS update ID' that we'll need in the next step.
- Copy or rename the bundle names in the **dist/bundles** folder to match **index.android.bundle** (Android) or **main.jsbundle** (iOS).
- Next, you can use the Sentry CLI to upload your bundles and source maps:
  - `release name` should be set to `${bundleIdentifier}@${version}+${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${androidPackage}@${version}+${versionCode}` (Android), so for example `com.domain.myapp@1.0.0+1`.
  - `dist` should be set to the Update ID that `eas update` generated.

<Tabs>
  <Tab label="Android">
    <Terminal
      cmd={[
        '$ node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \\',
        '    files <release name> \\',
        '    upload-sourcemaps \\',
        '    --dist <Android Update ID> \\',
        '    --rewrite \\',
        '    dist/bundles/index.android.bundle dist/bundles/android-<hash>.map',
      ]}
    />
  </Tab>
  <Tab label="iOS">
    <Terminal
      cmd={[
        '$ node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \\',
        '    files <release name> \\',
        '    upload-sourcemaps \\',
        '    --dist <iOS Update ID> \\',
        '    --rewrite \\',
        '    dist/bundles/main.jsbundle dist/bundles/ios-<hash>.map',
      ]}
    />
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

For more information, see Sentry's [instructions for uploading the bundle and source maps](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/#3-upload-the-bundle-and-source-maps).

The steps above define a new 'dist' on Sentry, under the same release as your full app build, and associate the source maps with this new dist. If you want to customize this behavior, you can pass in your own values for `release` and `dist` when you initialize Sentry in your code. For example:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN',
  release: 'my release name',
  dist: 'my dist',
});
```

These values should match the values you pass to the `sentry-cli` when uploading your source maps.

### Testing Sentry

When building tests for your application, you want to assert that the right flow-tracking or error is being sent to Sentry, but without really sending it to Sentry servers. This way you won't swamp Sentry with false reports during test running and other CI operations.

[`sentry-testkit`](https://zivl.github.io/sentry-testkit) enables Sentry to work natively in your application, and by overriding the default Sentry transport mechanism, the report is not really sent but rather logged locally into memory. In this way, the logged reports can be fetched later for your own usage, verification, or any other use you may have in your local developing/testing environment.

For more information on how to get started, see [`sentry-testkit` documentation](https://zivl.github.io/sentry-testkit/).

> If you're using `jest`, make sure to add `@sentry/.*` and `sentry-expo` to your `transformIgnorePatterns`.

## Error reporting semantics

In order to ensure that errors are reported reliably, Sentry defers reporting the data to their backend until the next time you load the app after a fatal error rather than trying to report it upon catching the exception. It saves the stacktrace and other metadata to `AsyncStorage` and sends it immediately when the app starts.

## Disabled by default in dev

Unless `enableInExpoDevelopment: true` is set, all your dev/local errors will be ignored and only app releases will report errors to Sentry. You can call methods like `Sentry.Native.captureException(new Error('Oops!'))` but these methods will be no-op.

## Troubleshooting

<Collapsible summary={<>I'm seeing <CODE>error: project not found</CODE> in my build logs</>}>

This error is caused by the script that tries to upload source maps during build.

Make sure your `organization`, `project` and `authToken` properties are set correctly.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary={<><CODE>expo-dev-client</CODE> transactions never finish</>}>

This error is caused by the HTTP request tracking, which creates spans for log requests to the development server. To fix this, stop creating spans by adding the following code snippet:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';
import * as Network from 'expo-network';

const devServerPort = 8081;
let devServerIpAddress: string | null = null;
Network.getIpAddressAsync().then(ip => {
  devServerIpAddress = ip;
});

Sentry.init({
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.Native.ReactNativeTracing({
      shouldCreateSpanForRequest: url => {
        return !__DEV__ || !url.startsWith(`http://${devServerIpAddress}:${devServerPort}/logs`);
      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

</Collapsible>

## Learn more about Sentry

Sentry does more than just catch fatal errors, learn more about how to use Sentry from their [JavaScript usage docs](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/).

Commit message:

[docs] Update More section in Guides

docs/pages/guides/using-sentry.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Sentry
sidebar_title: Sentry
maxHeadingDepth: 4
description: A guide on installing and configuring Sentry for crash reporting.
---

import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';

[Sentry](http://getsentry.com/) is a crash reporting platform that provides you with **real-time insight into production deployments with info to reproduce and fix crashes**.

It notifies you of exceptions or errors that your users run into while using your app and organizes them for you on a web dashboard. Reported exceptions include stacktraces, device info, version, and other relevant context automatically; you can also provide additional context that is specific to your application, like the current route and user id.

## Why sentry-expo?

- Sentry treats React Native as a first-class citizen and we have collaborated with Sentry to make sure Expo is, too.
- It's very easy to set up and use
- It scales to meet the demands of even the largest projects.
- We trust it for our projects at Expo.
- It is free for up to 5,000 events per month.
- It streamlines your error-reporting code across iOS, Android, and web

> Native crash reporting is not available in Expo Go, it is only available in standalone builds or development builds.

<PlatformsSection title="Platform compatibility" android emulator ios simulator web />

## Install and configure Sentry

<Step label="1">

### Sign up for a Sentry account and create a project

Before getting real-time updates on errors and making your app generally incredible, you'll need to make sure you've created a Sentry project. Here's how to do that:

<Step label="1.1">

[Sign up for Sentry](https://sentry.io/signup/) (it's free), and create a project in your
Dashboard. Take note of your **organization slug**, **project name**, and **`DSN`** as you'll need
them later:

- **organization slug** is available in your **Organization settings** tab
- **project name** is available in your project's **Settings** > **Projects** tab (find it in the list)
- **`DSN`** is available in your project's **Settings** > **Projects** > **Project name** > **Client Keys
  (DSN)** tab.

</Step>

<Step label="1.2">

Go to the [Sentry API section](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/), and create an
**auth token**. The token requires the scopes: `org:read`, `project:releases`, and
`project:write`. Save them.

</Step>

Once you have each of these: organization slug, project name, DSN, and auth token, you're all set!

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Installation

In your project directory, run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install sentry-expo']} />

`sentry-expo` also requires some additional Expo module packages. To install them, run:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ npx expo install expo-application expo-constants expo-device expo-updates @sentry/react-native',
  ]}
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Code

#### Initialization

Add the following to your app's main file such as **App.js**:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN HERE',
  enableInExpoDevelopment: true,
  debug: true, // If `true`, Sentry will try to print out useful debugging information if something goes wrong with sending the event. Set it to `false` in production
});
```

#### Usage

Depending on which platform you are on (mobile or web), use the following methods to access any `@sentry/*` methods for instrumentation, performance, capturing exceptions and so on:

- For React Native, access any `@sentry/react-native` exports with `Sentry.Native.*`
- For web, access any `@sentry/browser` exports with `Sentry.Browser.*`

```js
// Access any @sentry/react-native exports via:
// Sentry.Native.*

// Access any @sentry/browser exports via:
// Sentry.Browser.*

// The following example uses `captureException()` from Sentry.Native.* to capture errors:
try {
  // your code
} catch (error) {
  Sentry.Native.captureException(error);
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### App Configuration

Configuring `sentry-expo` is done through the config plugin in your [app config](/workflow/configuration/).

<ConfigReactNative>

If you use bare workflow, **you should not use the `plugins` property in app config**. Instead, run `yarn sentry-wizard -i reactNative -p ios android` to configure your native projects. This `sentry-wizard` command will add an extra import statement and `Sentry.init` to your project's root file (usually **App.js**) as shown below. Make sure you remove it, however, keep the `sentry-expo` import and original `Sentry.init` call.

```js
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN',
});
```

</ConfigReactNative>

#### Configure a `postPublish` hook

Add `expo.hooks` property to your project's **app.json** or **app.config.js** file:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "hooks": {
      "postPublish": [
        {
          "file": "sentry-expo/upload-sourcemaps",
          "config": {
            "organization": "sentry org slug, or use the `SENTRY_ORG` environment variable",
            "project": "sentry project name, or use the `SENTRY_PROJECT` environment variable"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

To upload the source map to Sentry, you must create a [Sentry auth token](https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/configuration/). After creating your Sentry auth token [here](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/), you can configure this token through the `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable in [EAS Build](/build-reference/variables/#using-secrets-in-environment-variables).

> **warning** Never commit secrets to your repository. Keep the Sentry auth token in a safe place, outside your repository and use the environment variable instead.

Besides the auth token, you can also configure the following options through environment variables:

- organization → `SENTRY_ORG`
- project → `SENTRY_PROJECT`

<br />

<Collapsible summary="Additional configuration options">

In addition to the required config fields above, you can also provide these **optional** fields:

- `setCommits` : boolean value indicating whether or not to tell Sentry about which commits are associated with a new release. This allows Sentry to pinpoint which commits likely caused an issue.
- `deployEnv` : string indicating the deploy environment. This will automatically send an email to Sentry users who have committed to the release that is being deployed.
- `distribution` : The name/value to give your distribution (you can think of this as a sub-release). Expo defaults to using your `version` from app.json. **If you provide a custom `distribution`, you must pass the same value to `dist` in your call to `Sentry.init()`, otherwise you will not see stacktraces in your error reports.**
- `release` : The name you'd like to give your release (e.g. `release-feature-ABC`). This defaults to a unique `revisionId` of your JS bundle. **If you provide a custom `release`, you must pass in the same `release` value to `Sentry.init()`, otherwise you will not see stacktraces in your error reports.**
- `url` : your Sentry URL, only necessary when self-hosting Sentry.

> You can also use environment variables for your config, if you prefer:
>
> - setCommits → `SENTRY_SET_COMMITS`
> - deployEnv → `SENTRY_DEPLOY_ENV`
> - distribution → `SENTRY_DIST`
> - release → `SENTRY_RELEASE`
> - url → `SENTRY_URL`

</Collapsible>

<br />

#### Add the Config Plugin

Add `expo.plugins` to your project's **app.json** or **app.config.js** file:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": ["sentry-expo"]
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
  }
}
```

</Step>

## Source Maps

{/* TODO: Drop `expo publish` mention */}

With the `postPublish` hook in place, now all you need to do is run `expo publish` and the source maps will be uploaded automatically. We automatically assign a unique release version for Sentry each time you hit publish, based on the version you specify in **app.json** and a release id on our backend -- this means that if you forget to update the version but hit publish, you will still get a unique Sentry release.

> This hook can also be used as a `postExport` hook if you're [self-hosting your updates](../distribution/custom-updates-server.mdx).

### Uploading source maps at build time

With `expo-updates`, release builds of both iOS and Android apps will create and embed a new update from your JavaScript source at build-time. **This new update will not be published automatically** and will exist only in the binary with which it was bundled. Since it isn't published, the source maps aren't uploaded in the usual way like they are when you run `expo publish` (actually, we are relying on Sentry's native scripts to handle that). Because of this you have some extra things to be aware of:

- Your `release` will automatically be set to Sentry's expected value- `${bundleIdentifier}@${version}+${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${androidPackage}@${version}+${versionCode}` (Android).
- Your `dist` will automatically be set to Sentry's expected value: `${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${versionCode}` (Android).
- The configuration for build time source maps comes from the **android/sentry.properties** and **ios/sentry.properties** files. For more information, see [Sentry's documentation](https://docs.sentry.io/clients/java/config/#configuration-via-properties-file). Manual configuration is only required for bare projects, the [sentry-expo config plugin handles it otherwise](#add-the-config-plugin).
- Configuration for `expo publish` and `npx expo export` for projects is done via **app.json**, whether using bare workflow or not.

Skipping or misconfiguring either of these can lead to invalid source maps, and you won't see human-readable stacktraces in your errors.

### Uploading source maps for updates

> This requires SDK 47, with `sentry-expo@6.0.0` or above and `expo-updates@0.15.5` or above.

If you're using EAS Update, or if you're self-hosting your updates (this means you run `npx expo export` manually), you need to take the following steps to upload the source maps for your update to Sentry:

- Run `eas update`. This will generate a **dist** folder in your project root, which contains your JavaScript bundles and source maps. This command will also output the 'Android update ID' and 'iOS update ID' that we'll need in the next step.
- Copy or rename the bundle names in the **dist/bundles** folder to match **index.android.bundle** (Android) or **main.jsbundle** (iOS).
- Next, you can use the Sentry CLI to upload your bundles and source maps:
  - `release name` should be set to `${bundleIdentifier}@${version}+${buildNumber}` (iOS) or `${androidPackage}@${version}+${versionCode}` (Android), so for example `com.domain.myapp@1.0.0+1`.
  - `dist` should be set to the Update ID that `eas update` generated.

<Tabs>
  <Tab label="Android">
    <Terminal
      cmd={[
        '$ node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \\',
        '    files <release name> \\',
        '    upload-sourcemaps \\',
        '    --dist <Android Update ID> \\',
        '    --rewrite \\',
        '    dist/bundles/index.android.bundle dist/bundles/android-<hash>.map',
      ]}
    />
  </Tab>
  <Tab label="iOS">
    <Terminal
      cmd={[
        '$ node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \\',
        '    files <release name> \\',
        '    upload-sourcemaps \\',
        '    --dist <iOS Update ID> \\',
        '    --rewrite \\',
        '    dist/bundles/main.jsbundle dist/bundles/ios-<hash>.map',
      ]}
    />
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

For more information, see Sentry's [instructions for uploading the bundle and source maps](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/#3-upload-the-bundle-and-source-maps).

The steps above define a new 'dist' on Sentry, under the same release as your full app build, and associate the source maps with this new dist. If you want to customize this behavior, you can pass in your own values for `release` and `dist` when you initialize Sentry in your code. For example:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: 'YOUR DSN',
  release: 'my release name',
  dist: 'my dist',
});
```

These values should match the values you pass to the `sentry-cli` when uploading your source maps.

### Testing Sentry

When building tests for your application, you want to assert that the right flow-tracking or error is being sent to Sentry, but without really sending it to Sentry servers. This way you won't swamp Sentry with false reports during test running and other CI operations.

[`sentry-testkit`](https://zivl.github.io/sentry-testkit) enables Sentry to work natively in your application, and by overriding the default Sentry transport mechanism, the report is not really sent but rather logged locally into memory. In this way, the logged reports can be fetched later for your own usage, verification, or any other use you may have in your local developing/testing environment.

For more information on how to get started, see [`sentry-testkit` documentation](https://zivl.github.io/sentry-testkit/).

> If you're using `jest`, make sure to add `@sentry/.*` and `sentry-expo` to your `transformIgnorePatterns`.

## Error reporting semantics

In order to ensure that errors are reported reliably, Sentry defers reporting the data to their backend until the next time you load the app after a fatal error rather than trying to report it upon catching the exception. It saves the stacktrace and other metadata to `AsyncStorage` and sends it immediately when the app starts.

## Disabled by default in dev

Unless `enableInExpoDevelopment: true` is set, all your dev/local errors will be ignored and only app releases will report errors to Sentry. You can call methods like `Sentry.Native.captureException(new Error('Oops!'))` but these methods will be no-op.

## Troubleshooting

<Collapsible summary={<>I'm seeing <CODE>error: project not found</CODE> in my build logs</>}>

This error is caused by the script that tries to upload source maps during build.

Make sure your `organization`, `project` and `authToken` properties are set correctly.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary={<><CODE>expo-dev-client</CODE> transactions never finish</>}>

This error is caused by the HTTP request tracking, which creates spans for log requests to the development server. To fix this, stop creating spans by adding the following code snippet:

```js
import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';
import * as Network from 'expo-network';

const devServerPort = 8081;
let devServerIpAddress: string | null = null;
Network.getIpAddressAsync().then(ip => {
  devServerIpAddress = ip;
});

Sentry.init({
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.Native.ReactNativeTracing({
      shouldCreateSpanForRequest: url => {
        return !__DEV__ || !url.startsWith(`http://${devServerIpAddress}:${devServerPort}/logs`);
      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

</Collapsible>

## Learn more about Sentry

Sentry does more than just catch fatal errors, learn more about how to use Sentry from their [JavaScript usage](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/) documentation.
