docs/pages/guides/using-logrocket.mdx, before:

---
title: Using LogRocket
maxHeadingDepth: 4
hideTOC: true
description: A guide on installing and configuring LogRocket for session replays and error monitoring.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

[LogRocket](https://logrocket.com) records user sessions and identifies bugs as your users use your app. You can filter sessions by update IDs and also connect to your LogRocket account on the Expo dashboard to get quick access to your app's session data.

## Install and configure LogRocket

You can install the LogRocket SDK with the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install @logrocket/react-native expo-build-properties']} />

Then, in your [app config](/workflow/configuration/), include the LogRocket config plugin:

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "expo-build-properties",
      {
        "android": {
          "minSdkVersion": 25
        }
      }
    ],
    "@logrocket/react-native"
  ]
}
```

Finally, initialize LogRocket in your app in a top-level file, like **app/\_layout.tsx**:

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { useEffect } from 'react';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';
import LogRocket from '@logrocket/react-native';

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    LogRocket.init('<App ID>', {
      updateId: Updates.updateId,
    });
  }, []);
};
```

In the code above, replace `<App ID>` with your [LogRocket App ID](https://app.logrocket.com/r/settings/setup).

## Learn more about LogRocket

To learn more about how to use LogRocket with Expo, check out the [LogRocket documentation](https://docs.logrocket.com/reference/react-native-expo-adding-the-sdk).

Commit message:

[docs] Updates using LogRocket doc (#34908)
# Why

You can now connect your LogRocket account and project on the Expo
dashboard. This PR adds instructions and screenshots of how to set that
up.

# Screenshots
<img width="955" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-13 at 5 22 28 PM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19884181-e91b-4cc3-9e5e-7fd831f29a3e"
/>
<img width="969" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-13 at 5 20 09 PM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3f102938-8876-485f-8b67-a9e21e2300cb"
/>
<img width="713" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-13 at 5 23 50 PM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b7542930-d2e9-4641-9519-01b1857091b1"
/>


# Test Plan

- Make sure it reads well
- Make sure links work

docs/pages/guides/using-logrocket.mdx, after:

---
title: Using LogRocket
maxHeadingDepth: 4
description: A guide on installing and configuring LogRocket for session replays and error monitoring.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

[LogRocket](https://logrocket.com) records user sessions and identifies bugs as your users use your app. You can filter sessions by update IDs and also connect to your LogRocket account on the Expo dashboard to get quick access to your app's session data.

## Install and configure LogRocket

You can install the LogRocket SDK with the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install @logrocket/react-native expo-build-properties']} />

Then, in your [app config](/workflow/configuration/), include the LogRocket config plugin:

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "expo-build-properties",
      {
        "android": {
          "minSdkVersion": 25
        }
      }
    ],
    "@logrocket/react-native"
  ]
}
```

Finally, initialize LogRocket in your app in a top-level file, like **app/\_layout.tsx**:

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { useEffect } from 'react';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';
import LogRocket from '@logrocket/react-native';

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    LogRocket.init('<App ID>', {
      updateId: Updates.isEmbeddedLaunch ? null : Updates.updateId,
      expoChannel: Updates.channel,
    });
  }, []);
};
```

In the code above, replace `<App ID>` with your [LogRocket App ID](https://app.logrocket.com/r/settings/setup).

## Connecting LogRocket on the Expo dashboard

You can link your LogRocket account and project to your Expo account and project on Expo's dashboard, so that you can see the last few sessions from your app in the deployments and updates dashboards.

Go to your [account settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/%5Baccount%5D/settings) and click **Connect** to authenticate with LogRocket:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Connect LogRocket account to Expo account."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/logrocket-connect-account.png"
/>

Then, go to your [project settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/%5Baccount%5D/projects/%5BprojectName%5D/settings) and click **Connect** to link your LogRocket project with your project on Expo:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Connect LogRocket project to Expo project."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/logrocket-connect-project.png"
/>

Then, you'll start to see **View on LogRocket** buttons in the Expo dashboard in the Deployments and Updates dashboards, along with the last few sessions from your app.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="View on LogRocket button and sessions in the deployment dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/logrocket-view-on-logrocket.png"
/>

## Learn more about LogRocket

To learn more about how to use LogRocket with Expo, check out the [LogRocket documentation](https://docs.logrocket.com/reference/react-native-expo-adding-the-sdk).
