docs/pages/develop/tools.mdx, before:

---
title: Tools for development
description: An overview of Expo tools and websites that will help you during various aspects of your project-building journey.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';
import { CodeBrowserIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/CodeBrowserIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

When you create a new project with Expo, learning about the following essential tools and websites can help you during your app development journey. This page provides an overview of a list of recommended tools.

## Expo CLI

Expo CLI is a development tool and is installed automatically with `expo` package when you create a new project. You can use it by leveraging `npx` (a Node.js package runner).

It is designed to help you move faster during the app development phase. For example, your first interaction with Expo CLI is starting the development server by running the command: `npx expo start`.

The following is a list of common commands that you will use with Expo CLI while developing your app:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `npx expo start`                | Starts the development server (whether you are using a development build or Expo Go).                                                                            |
| `npx expo prebuild`             | Generates native Android and iOS directories using [Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild/).                                                                              |
| `npx expo run:android`          | Compiles native Android app locally.                                                                                                                             |
| `npx expo run:ios`              | Compiles native iOS app locally.                                                                                                                                 |
| `npx expo install package-name` | Used to install a new library or validate and update specific libraries in your project by adding `--fix` option to this command.                                |
| `npx expo lint`                 | [Setup and configures](/guides/using-eslint/) ESLint. If ESLint is already configured, this command will [lint your project files](/guides/using-eslint/#usage). |

In a nutshell, Expo CLI allows you to develop, compile, start your app, and more. See [Expo CLI reference](/more/expo-cli/) for more available options and actions you can perform with the CLI.

## EAS CLI

EAS CLI is used to log in to your Expo account and compile your app using different EAS services such as Build, Update, or Submit. You can also use this tool to:

- Publish your app to the app stores
- Create a development, preview, or production build of your app
- Create over-the-air (OTA) updates
- Manage your app credentials
- Create an ad hoc provisioning profile for an iOS device

To use EAS CLI, you need to install it globally on your local machine by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g eas-cli']} />

You can use `eas --help` in your terminal window to learn more about the available commands. For a complete reference, see [`eas-cli` npm page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eas-cli).

## Expo Doctor

Expo Doctor is a command line tool used to diagnose issues in your Expo project. To use it, run the following command in your project's root directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-doctor']} />

This command performs checks and analyzes your project's codebase for common issues in [app config](/workflow/configuration/) and **package.json** files, dependency compatibility, configuration files, and the overall health of the project. Once the check is complete, Expo Doctor outputs the results.

If Expo Doctor finds an issue, it provides a description of the problem along with advice on how to fix it or where to find help.

You can also use `npx expo-doctor --help` to display usage information.

## Orbit

Orbit is a macOS and Windows app that enables:

- Install and launch builds from EAS on physical devices and emulators.
- Install and launch updates from EAS on Android Emulators or iOS Simulators.
- Launch snack projects on Android Emulators or iOS Simulators.
- Use local files to install and launch apps. Orbit supports any Android **.apk**, iOS Simulator compatible **.app**, or ad hoc signed apps.
- See a list of pinned projects from your EAS dashboard.

<ContentSpotlight file="orbit/basic-features.mp4" />

### Installation

<Tabs>

<Tab label="macOS">

You can download Orbit with Homebrew for macOS, or directly from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/expo/orbit/releases).

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install expo-orbit']} />

If you want Orbit to start when you log in automatically, click on the Orbit icon in the menu bar, then **Settings** and select the **Launch on Login** option.

</Tab>

<Tab label="Windows">

> **Note**: Orbit for Windows is in preview and is only compatible with x64 and x86 machines. Compatibility for other architectures will be added in the future.

You can download Orbit for Windows directly from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/expo/orbit/releases).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> **info** Orbit relies on the Android SDK on both macOS and Windows and `xcrun` for device management only on macOS, which requires setting up both [Android Studio](/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) and [Xcode](/workflow/ios-simulator/).

{/* TODO: (@aman) to add update https://docs.expo.dev/build/orbit/ with instructions on how to actually use Expo Orbit with EAS Build, add link to https://docs.expo.dev/review/with-orbit/ to add the following section */}
{/* ### Usage */}

## Expo Tools for VS Code

Expo Tools is a VS Code extension to improve your development experience when working with app config files. It provides features such as autocomplete and intellisense for files such as app config, EAS config, store config and Expo Module config files.

<BoxLink
  title="Install Expo Tools VS Code extension"
  description="Use this link to install the extension or search Expo Tools directly in your VS Code editor."
  href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=expo.vscode-expo-tools"
  Icon={CodeBrowserIcon}
/>

You can also use it to debug your app using VS Code's built-in debugger to set breakpoints, inspect variables, execute code through the debug console, and more. See [Debugging with VS Code](/debugging/tools/#debugging-with-vs-code) for how to use this extension for debugging.

## Test prototypes with Snack and Expo Go

### Snack

Snack is an in-browser development environment that works similarly to Expo Go. It's a great way to share code snippets and experiment with React Native without downloading any tools on your computer.

To use it, go to [snack.expo.dev](https://snack.expo.dev/), edit the `<Text>` component in **App.js**, choose a platform (Android, iOS, or web) in the right panel and see the changes live.

### Expo Go

[Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go) is a free open-source, sandbox for learning and experimenting with React Native. It works with Android and iOS.

For more information on how to use it:

- Click [this link](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/?mode=expo-go) to go to Set up your environment guide
- Select a platform to develop under **Where would you like to develop?**
- Select Expo Go under **How would you like to develop?**
- Follow the instructions described in that guide

> **Note:** Not recommended for building and distributing production apps to the app stores. Instead, use [development builds](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/?mode=development-build).

<Collapsible summary="What if I open a project with an unsupported SDK version?">

When running a project that was created for an unsupported SDK version in Expo Go, you'll see the following error:

```sh
"Project is incompatible with this version of Expo Go"
```

To fix this, upgrading your project to a [supported SDK version](/versions/latest/#each-expo-sdk-version-depends-on-a-react-native-version) is recommended. If you want to learn how to do it, see [Upgrade the project to a new SDK Version](#how-do-i-upgrade-my-project-from).

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How do I upgrade my project from an unsupported SDK version?">

See [Upgrading Expo SDK guide](/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough) for instructions for upgrading to a specific SDK version.

</Collapsible>

## React Native directory

Any library that is compatible with React Native works in an Expo project when you use a development build to create your project.

[reactnative.directory](https://reactnative.directory/) is a searchable database for React Native libraries. If a library you are looking for is not included in Expo SDK, use the directory to find a compatible library for your project.

<BoxLink
  title="Use libraries"
  description="See this guide to learn more about the difference between React Native core libraries, Expo SDK libraries, and third-party libraries. It also explains how to determine third-party library compatibility."
  href="/workflow/using-libraries/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

Commit message:

[docs] document doctor configurations (#33451)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->
[ENG-13946 [Docs] Add all the existing configurations to the Doctor doc
section](https://linear.app/expo/issue/ENG-13946/[docs]-add-all-the-existing-configurations-to-the-doctor-doc-section)

# How
Verified that the configurations work as expected in an example project

# Test Plan
Run locally and verify that the page displays correctly.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [x] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [x] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

---------

Co-authored-by: Aman Mittal <amandeepmittal@live.com>

docs/pages/develop/tools.mdx, after:

---
title: Tools for development
description: An overview of Expo tools and websites that will help you during various aspects of your project-building journey.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';
import { CodeBrowserIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/CodeBrowserIcon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

When you create a new project with Expo, learning about the following essential tools and websites can help you during your app development journey. This page provides an overview of a list of recommended tools.

## Expo CLI

Expo CLI is a development tool and is installed automatically with `expo` package when you create a new project. You can use it by leveraging `npx` (a Node.js package runner).

It is designed to help you move faster during the app development phase. For example, your first interaction with Expo CLI is starting the development server by running the command: `npx expo start`.

The following is a list of common commands that you will use with Expo CLI while developing your app:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `npx expo start`                | Starts the development server (whether you are using a development build or Expo Go).                                                                            |
| `npx expo prebuild`             | Generates native Android and iOS directories using [Prebuild](/workflow/prebuild/).                                                                              |
| `npx expo run:android`          | Compiles native Android app locally.                                                                                                                             |
| `npx expo run:ios`              | Compiles native iOS app locally.                                                                                                                                 |
| `npx expo install package-name` | Used to install a new library or validate and update specific libraries in your project by adding `--fix` option to this command.                                |
| `npx expo lint`                 | [Setup and configures](/guides/using-eslint/) ESLint. If ESLint is already configured, this command will [lint your project files](/guides/using-eslint/#usage). |

In a nutshell, Expo CLI allows you to develop, compile, start your app, and more. See [Expo CLI reference](/more/expo-cli/) for more available options and actions you can perform with the CLI.

## EAS CLI

EAS CLI is used to log in to your Expo account and compile your app using different EAS services such as Build, Update, or Submit. You can also use this tool to:

- Publish your app to the app stores
- Create a development, preview, or production build of your app
- Create over-the-air (OTA) updates
- Manage your app credentials
- Create an ad hoc provisioning profile for an iOS device

To use EAS CLI, you need to install it globally on your local machine by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g eas-cli']} />

You can use `eas --help` in your terminal window to learn more about the available commands. For a complete reference, see [`eas-cli` npm page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eas-cli).

## Expo Doctor

Expo Doctor is a command line tool used to diagnose issues in your Expo project. To use it, run the following command in your project's root directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-doctor']} />

This command performs checks and analyzes your project's codebase for common issues in [app config](/workflow/configuration/) and **package.json** files, dependency compatibility, configuration files, and the overall health of the project. Once the check is complete, Expo Doctor outputs the results.

If Expo Doctor finds an issue, it provides a description of the problem along with advice on how to fix it or where to find help.

By default, Expo Doctor validates your project's packages against the [React Native directory](https://reactnative.directory/) and checks if app config properties are properly synced when native directories exist. You can configure these checks in your project's **package.json** file. See [`reactNativeDirectoryCheck`](/versions/latest/config/package-json/#reactnativedirectorycheck) and [`appConfigFieldsNotSyncedCheck`](/versions/latest/config/package-json/#appconfigfieldsnotsynced) for more details.

You can also use `npx expo-doctor --help` to display usage information.

## Orbit

Orbit is a macOS and Windows app that enables:

- Install and launch builds from EAS on physical devices and emulators.
- Install and launch updates from EAS on Android Emulators or iOS Simulators.
- Launch snack projects on Android Emulators or iOS Simulators.
- Use local files to install and launch apps. Orbit supports any Android **.apk**, iOS Simulator compatible **.app**, or ad hoc signed apps.
- See a list of pinned projects from your EAS dashboard.

<ContentSpotlight file="orbit/basic-features.mp4" />

### Installation

<Tabs>

<Tab label="macOS">

You can download Orbit with Homebrew for macOS, or directly from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/expo/orbit/releases).

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install expo-orbit']} />

If you want Orbit to start when you log in automatically, click on the Orbit icon in the menu bar, then **Settings** and select the **Launch on Login** option.

</Tab>

<Tab label="Windows">

> **Note**: Orbit for Windows is in preview and is only compatible with x64 and x86 machines. Compatibility for other architectures will be added in the future.

You can download Orbit for Windows directly from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/expo/orbit/releases).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> **info** Orbit relies on the Android SDK on both macOS and Windows and `xcrun` for device management only on macOS, which requires setting up both [Android Studio](/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) and [Xcode](/workflow/ios-simulator/).

{/* TODO: (@aman) to add update https://docs.expo.dev/build/orbit/ with instructions on how to actually use Expo Orbit with EAS Build, add link to https://docs.expo.dev/review/with-orbit/ to add the following section */}
{/* ### Usage */}

## Expo Tools for VS Code

Expo Tools is a VS Code extension to improve your development experience when working with app config files. It provides features such as autocomplete and intellisense for files such as app config, EAS config, store config and Expo Module config files.

<BoxLink
  title="Install Expo Tools VS Code extension"
  description="Use this link to install the extension or search Expo Tools directly in your VS Code editor."
  href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=expo.vscode-expo-tools"
  Icon={CodeBrowserIcon}
/>

You can also use it to debug your app using VS Code's built-in debugger to set breakpoints, inspect variables, execute code through the debug console, and more. See [Debugging with VS Code](/debugging/tools/#debugging-with-vs-code) for how to use this extension for debugging.

## Test prototypes with Snack and Expo Go

### Snack

Snack is an in-browser development environment that works similarly to Expo Go. It's a great way to share code snippets and experiment with React Native without downloading any tools on your computer.

To use it, go to [snack.expo.dev](https://snack.expo.dev/), edit the `<Text>` component in **App.js**, choose a platform (Android, iOS, or web) in the right panel and see the changes live.

### Expo Go

[Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go) is a free open-source, sandbox for learning and experimenting with React Native. It works with Android and iOS.

For more information on how to use it:

- Click [this link](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/?mode=expo-go) to go to Set up your environment guide
- Select a platform to develop under **Where would you like to develop?**
- Select Expo Go under **How would you like to develop?**
- Follow the instructions described in that guide

> **Note:** Not recommended for building and distributing production apps to the app stores. Instead, use [development builds](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/?mode=development-build).

<Collapsible summary="What if I open a project with an unsupported SDK version?">

When running a project that was created for an unsupported SDK version in Expo Go, you'll see the following error:

```sh
"Project is incompatible with this version of Expo Go"
```

To fix this, upgrading your project to a [supported SDK version](/versions/latest/#each-expo-sdk-version-depends-on-a-react-native-version) is recommended. If you want to learn how to do it, see [Upgrade the project to a new SDK Version](#how-do-i-upgrade-my-project-from).

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How do I upgrade my project from an unsupported SDK version?">

See [Upgrading Expo SDK guide](/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough) for instructions for upgrading to a specific SDK version.

</Collapsible>

## React Native directory

Any library that is compatible with React Native works in an Expo project when you use a development build to create your project.

[reactnative.directory](https://reactnative.directory/) is a searchable database for React Native libraries. If a library you are looking for is not included in Expo SDK, use the directory to find a compatible library for your project.

<BoxLink
  title="Use libraries"
  description="See this guide to learn more about the difference between React Native core libraries, Expo SDK libraries, and third-party libraries. It also explains how to determine third-party library compatibility."
  href="/workflow/using-libraries/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>
