docs/pages/deploy/web.mdx, before:

---
title: Publish your web app
sidebar_title: Deploy web apps
description: Learn how to deploy your web app using EAS Hosting.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

If you are building a universal app, you can quickly deploy your web app using [EAS Hosting](/eas/hosting/introduction/). It is a service for deploying web apps built with Expo Router and React.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, in your project's **app.json** file, ensure that the [`expo.web.output`](/versions/latest/config/app/#output) property either `static` or `server`.

## Export your web project

To deploy your web app, you need to create a static build of your web project. Export your web project into a **dist** directory by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export --platform web']} />

> Remember to re-run this command every time before deploying when you make changes to your web app.

## Initial deployment

To publish your web app, run the following [EAS CLI](/develop/tools/#eas-cli) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas deploy']} />

After running this command for the first time, you'll be prompted to select a preview subdomain for your project. This subdomain is a prefix used to create a preview URL and is used for production deployments. For example, in `https://test-app--1234.expo.app`, `test-app` is the preview subdomain.

Once your deployment is complete, the EAS CLI will output a preview URL to access your deployed app.

## Production deployment

To create a production deployment, run the following [EAS CLI](/develop/tools/#eas-cli) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas deploy --prod']} />

Once your deployment is complete, the EAS CLI will output a production URL to access your deployed app.

## Learn more

You can learn more about setting up [deployment aliases](/eas/hosting/deployments-and-aliases/), using a [custom domain](/eas/hosting/custom-domain/), or [deploying an API Route](/router/reference/api-routes/#deployment).

Commit message:

Add warning callout for preview

docs/pages/deploy/web.mdx, after:

---
title: Publish your web app
sidebar_title: Deploy web apps
description: Learn how to deploy your web app using EAS Hosting.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> **warning** **EAS Hosting** is in preview and subject to changes.

If you are building a universal app, you can quickly deploy your web app using [EAS Hosting](/eas/hosting/introduction/). It is a service for deploying web apps built with Expo Router and React.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, in your project's **app.json** file, ensure that the [`expo.web.output`](/versions/latest/config/app/#output) property either `static` or `server`.

## Export your web project

To deploy your web app, you need to create a static build of your web project. Export your web project into a **dist** directory by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export --platform web']} />

> Remember to re-run this command every time before deploying when you make changes to your web app.

## Initial deployment

To publish your web app, run the following [EAS CLI](/develop/tools/#eas-cli) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas deploy']} />

After running this command for the first time, you'll be prompted to select a preview subdomain for your project. This subdomain is a prefix used to create a preview URL and is used for production deployments. For example, in `https://test-app--1234.expo.app`, `test-app` is the preview subdomain.

Once your deployment is complete, the EAS CLI will output a preview URL to access your deployed app.

## Production deployment

To create a production deployment, run the following [EAS CLI](/develop/tools/#eas-cli) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas deploy --prod']} />

Once your deployment is complete, the EAS CLI will output a production URL to access your deployed app.

## Learn more

You can learn more about setting up [deployment aliases](/eas/hosting/deployments-and-aliases/), using a [custom domain](/eas/hosting/custom-domain/), or [deploying an API Route](/router/reference/api-routes/#deployment).
