docs/pages/monitoring/services.mdx, before:

---
title: Monitoring services
description: Learn how to monitor the usage of your Expo and React Native app after its release.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Once your app is released, you can track anonymized usage data to give you insights on how users use your app. This data includes which updates are in use, when users experience bugs, and more.

## EAS Insights

Expo provides the [`expo-insights`](/eas-insights/introduction/) library, which tracks information related to [EAS Update](/deploy/send-over-the-air-updates/). This data includes the app version, platform, OS version, and update adoption. After you install it and release production builds on the app stores, you'll be able to see additional data on your project dashboard:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Active user insights on the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/expo-insights.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="EAS Insights"
  description="Learn how to use EAS Insights to monitor your app."
  href="/eas-insights/introduction/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## LogRocket

You can get more insights with [LogRocket](https://logrocket.com). LogRocket records user sessions and identifies bugs as your users use your app. You can filter sessions by update IDs and also connect to your LogRocket account on the Expo dashboard to get quick access to your app's session data.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="User sessions on the LogRocket dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/logrocket.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using LogRocket"
  description="Learn how to use LogRocket to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-logrocket/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Sentry

[Sentry](http://getsentry.com/) is a crash reporting platform that provides real-time insight into production deployments with information to reproduce and fix crashes.

It notifies you of exceptions or errors that your users run into while using your app and organizes them for you on a web dashboard. Reported exceptions include stacktraces, device info, version, and other relevant context automatically. You can also provide additional context that is specific to your app, such as the current route and user ID.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Issues on the Sentry dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/sentry.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using Sentry"
  description="Learn how to use Sentry to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-sentry/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## BugSnag

[BugSnag](https://www.bugsnag.com/) is a stability monitoring solution that provides rich, end-to-end error reporting and analytics to reproduce and fix errors with speed and precision. BugSnag supports the full stack with open-source libraries for more than 50 platforms, including React Native.

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using BugSnag"
  description="Learn how to use BugSnag to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-bugsnag/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

Commit message:

[docs] Adds Vexo to monitoring services

docs/pages/monitoring/services.mdx, after:

---
title: Monitoring services
description: Learn how to monitor the usage of your Expo and React Native app after its release.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Once your app is released, you can track anonymized usage data to give you insights on how users use your app. This data includes which updates are in use, when users experience bugs, and more.

## EAS Insights

Expo provides the [`expo-insights`](/eas-insights/introduction/) library, which tracks information related to [EAS Update](/deploy/send-over-the-air-updates/). This data includes the app version, platform, OS version, and update adoption. After you install it and release production builds on the app stores, you'll be able to see additional data on your project dashboard:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Active user insights on the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/expo-insights.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="EAS Insights"
  description="Learn how to use EAS Insights to monitor your app."
  href="/eas-insights/introduction/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## LogRocket

You can get more insights with [LogRocket](https://logrocket.com). LogRocket records user sessions and identifies bugs as your users use your app. You can filter sessions by update IDs and also connect to your LogRocket account on the Expo dashboard to get quick access to your app's session data.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="User sessions on the LogRocket dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/logrocket.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using LogRocket"
  description="Learn how to use LogRocket to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-logrocket/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Sentry

[Sentry](http://getsentry.com/) is a crash reporting platform that provides real-time insight into production deployments with information to reproduce and fix crashes.

It notifies you of exceptions or errors that your users run into while using your app and organizes them for you on a web dashboard. Reported exceptions include stacktraces, device info, version, and other relevant context automatically. You can also provide additional context that is specific to your app, such as the current route and user ID.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Issues on the Sentry dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/sentry.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using Sentry"
  description="Learn how to use Sentry to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-sentry/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Vexo

[Vexo](https://www.vexo.co/) is a user analytics platform that helps you understand how users interact with your Expo app in real-time. It tracks user behavior, sessions, and performance metrics.

The platform automatically collects metrics and provides a dashboard where you can analyze user patterns, monitor engagement, and track custom events.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="The Vexo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/monitoring/monitor-your-app/vexo.png"
/>

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using Vexo"
  description="Learn how to use Vexo to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-vexo/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## BugSnag

[BugSnag](https://www.bugsnag.com/) is a stability monitoring solution that provides rich, end-to-end error reporting and analytics to reproduce and fix errors with speed and precision. BugSnag supports the full stack with open-source libraries for more than 50 platforms, including React Native.

Get started with the following guide:

<BoxLink
  title="Using BugSnag"
  description="Learn how to use BugSnag to monitor your app."
  href="/guides/using-bugsnag/"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>
