docs/pages/tutorial/eas/ios-production-build.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a production build for iOS
sidebar_title: iOS production build
description: Learn about the process of creating a production build for iOS and automating the release process.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';
import { VideoBoxLink } from '~/ui/components/VideoBoxLink';

In this chapter, we'll create our example app's production version and submit it for testing using TestFlight. After that, we'll submit them for App Store review to get it on the App Store.

<VideoBoxLink
  videoId="-KZjr576tuE"
  title="Watch: How to quickly publish to the App Store & Play Store with EAS Submit"
/>

---

## Prerequisites

To publish and distribute an app on the Apple Play Store, we need:

- **Apple Developer account:** To create one, see [Apple Developer Portal](https://developer.apple.com/account/).
- **Production build profile:** Ensure that a `production` build profile is present in your **eas.json**, which is added by default.

## Production build for iOS

A [production iOS build](/build/eas-json/#production-builds) is optimized for Apple's App Store Connect, which allows distributing builds to testers with TestFlight and public end users through the App Store. This build type cannot be side-loaded on a simulator or device and can only be distributed through App Store Connect.

<Step label="1">

## Create a distribution provisioning profile

Run the `eas credentials` command in the terminal and then answer the following prompts by EAS CLI:

- **Select platform** iOS.
- **Which build profile do you want to configure?** Select production.
- **Do you want to log in to your Apple account?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>. This will log in to our Apple Developer account.
- **What do you want to do?** Select **Build credentials** and choose **All: Set up all the required credentials to build your project**.
- Now, it will prompt whether we want to re-use the previous Distribution Certificate. Press <kbd>Y</kbd>.
- **Generate a new Apple Provisioning Profile?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>. This will be the provisioning profile for the production app.
- Once the profiles are created, press any <kbd>ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd> to exit the EAS CLI.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Create a production build

To create an iOS production build using the default `production` profile, open your terminal and execute the following command. Since `production` is set as the default profile in the EAS configuration, there is no need to specify it explicitly with the `--profile` flag.

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --platform ios']} />

The command will queue the build. Notice on the Expo dashboard that the **Build Number** is auto-incremented.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Submit the app binary to the App Store

To submit the app binary created from our latest EAS Build, run the [`eas submit`](/submit/introduction/) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas submit --platform ios']} />

After running this command, we need to:

- **Select a build from EAS.** Let's select the latest build ID.
- **Follow the prompt to log in to our Apple account.** When it asks for **Reuse this App Store Connect API Key?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>.

This will trigger the submission process.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Release an internal testing version

After the submission process is complete, we'll need to log in to the Apple Developer account from the web browser.

- Click **[Apps](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/apps),** and see the app icon.
- Click the app name, and from the navigation tab menu, click **TestFlight**. If the build was just submitted, it may take a few minutes for Apple to process the build before it is available to distribute with TestFlight.
- Click on the **Manage Compliance** link. Since our app doesn't use any encryption, select **None of the algorithms mentioned above**.

> **info** **Tip:** Next time when creating an app, skip this compliance by adding [`ios.config.usesNonExemptEncryption`](/versions/latest/config/app/#usesnonexemptencryption) in app config and set it to `false` if the app doesn't use any encryption.

- In App Store Connect, under **Internal Testing**, and create a test group. This will allow us to invite test users.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create a test user group in App Store Connect"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-01.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

- Once the group is created, an email will be sent to all the test users.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Email sent to test users for internal testing"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-02.jpg"
  className="max-w-[240px]"
/>

- In the email, click **View in TestFlight,** accept the invite, and then tap **Install**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="TestFlight app showing the app to install"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-03.jpg"
  className="max-w-[240px]"
/>

After that, the app will download on our device so that we can test it.

> **Note**: Similar to internal testing, we can also create a group for inviting external testers using TestFlight. Where internal testing has a limit of 100 users, TestFlight allows sharing a test release version externally with up to 10,000 testers and provides a publicly shareable link. For brevity, we are not going to cover those steps in this tutorial.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

## Submit the app to the Apple App Store

To prepare our app for App Store submission, go to the **App Store** tab:

- Provide metadata details, provide screenshots as per Apple's guidelines and also fill details under **General**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the app details and screenshots"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-04.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

- Then, manually select the build.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the build selection for the app"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-05.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

> **Complete App Store listing**: To prepare the app for store listing, see [Create app store assets](/guides/store-assets/) on how to create screenshots and previews.

- Once our app is ready, click on **Submit to App Review**. After that, Apple will review our app, and if approved, the app will be available on the App Store.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the app submission for review"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-06.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="6">

## Automated submissions

For future releases, we can streamline the process by combining build creation and App Store submission into a single step by using the [`--auto-submit`](/build/automate-submissions/) flag with `eas build`:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --platform ios --auto-submit']} />

</Step>

## Summary

<ProgressTracker
  currentChapterIndex={8}
  name="EAS_TUTORIAL"
  summary={
    <>
      We successfully created a production-ready iOS build, discussed distribution using TestFlight
      and Apple App Store using <CODE>eas submit</CODE>, and automated the release process with the{' '}
      <CODE>--auto-submit</CODE>.
    </>
  }
  nextChapterDescription="In the next chapter, learn how to use the EAS Update to send OTA updates and share previews with our team."
  nextChapterTitle="Share previews with your team"
  nextChapterLink="/tutorial/eas/team-development/"
/>

Commit message:

[docs] add EAS tutorial videos (#34395)
# Why

[ENG-14804 [Docs] Embed EAS Tutorial
videos](https://linear.app/expo/issue/ENG-14804/[docs]-embed-eas-tutorial-videos)

We're still working on creating thumbnails for the videos, but it would
be great if we could get this PR approved so I can merge the changes as
soon as the videos are live. Thanks a bunch! 🙏

# Test Plan

Ran locally and verify videos look good. 

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [x] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [x] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/tutorial/eas/ios-production-build.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a production build for iOS
sidebar_title: iOS production build
description: Learn about the process of creating a production build for iOS and automating the release process.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';
import { VideoBoxLink } from '~/ui/components/VideoBoxLink';

In this chapter, we'll create our example app's production version and submit it for testing using TestFlight. After that, we'll submit them for App Store review to get it on the App Store.

<VideoBoxLink
  videoId="VZL_e0cEwo8"
  title="Watch: Creating and releasing a production build for iOS"
/>

---

## Prerequisites

To publish and distribute an app on the Apple Play Store, we need:

- **Apple Developer account:** To create one, see [Apple Developer Portal](https://developer.apple.com/account/).
- **Production build profile:** Ensure that a `production` build profile is present in your **eas.json**, which is added by default.

## Production build for iOS

A [production iOS build](/build/eas-json/#production-builds) is optimized for Apple's App Store Connect, which allows distributing builds to testers with TestFlight and public end users through the App Store. This build type cannot be side-loaded on a simulator or device and can only be distributed through App Store Connect.

<Step label="1">

## Create a distribution provisioning profile

Run the `eas credentials` command in the terminal and then answer the following prompts by EAS CLI:

- **Select platform** iOS.
- **Which build profile do you want to configure?** Select production.
- **Do you want to log in to your Apple account?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>. This will log in to our Apple Developer account.
- **What do you want to do?** Select **Build credentials** and choose **All: Set up all the required credentials to build your project**.
- Now, it will prompt whether we want to re-use the previous Distribution Certificate. Press <kbd>Y</kbd>.
- **Generate a new Apple Provisioning Profile?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>. This will be the provisioning profile for the production app.
- Once the profiles are created, press any <kbd>ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd> to exit the EAS CLI.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Create a production build

To create an iOS production build using the default `production` profile, open your terminal and execute the following command. Since `production` is set as the default profile in the EAS configuration, there is no need to specify it explicitly with the `--profile` flag.

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --platform ios']} />

The command will queue the build. Notice on the Expo dashboard that the **Build Number** is auto-incremented.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Submit the app binary to the App Store

To submit the app binary created from our latest EAS Build, run the [`eas submit`](/submit/introduction/) command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas submit --platform ios']} />

After running this command, we need to:

- **Select a build from EAS.** Let's select the latest build ID.
- **Follow the prompt to log in to our Apple account.** When it asks for **Reuse this App Store Connect API Key?** Press <kbd>Y</kbd>.

This will trigger the submission process.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Release an internal testing version

After the submission process is complete, we'll need to log in to the Apple Developer account from the web browser.

- Click **[Apps](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/apps),** and see the app icon.
- Click the app name, and from the navigation tab menu, click **TestFlight**. If the build was just submitted, it may take a few minutes for Apple to process the build before it is available to distribute with TestFlight.
- Click on the **Manage Compliance** link. Since our app doesn't use any encryption, select **None of the algorithms mentioned above**.

> **info** **Tip:** Next time when creating an app, skip this compliance by adding [`ios.config.usesNonExemptEncryption`](/versions/latest/config/app/#usesnonexemptencryption) in app config and set it to `false` if the app doesn't use any encryption.

- In App Store Connect, under **Internal Testing**, and create a test group. This will allow us to invite test users.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create a test user group in App Store Connect"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-01.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

- Once the group is created, an email will be sent to all the test users.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Email sent to test users for internal testing"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-02.jpg"
  className="max-w-[240px]"
/>

- In the email, click **View in TestFlight,** accept the invite, and then tap **Install**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="TestFlight app showing the app to install"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-03.jpg"
  className="max-w-[240px]"
/>

After that, the app will download on our device so that we can test it.

> **Note**: Similar to internal testing, we can also create a group for inviting external testers using TestFlight. Where internal testing has a limit of 100 users, TestFlight allows sharing a test release version externally with up to 10,000 testers and provides a publicly shareable link. For brevity, we are not going to cover those steps in this tutorial.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

## Submit the app to the Apple App Store

To prepare our app for App Store submission, go to the **App Store** tab:

- Provide metadata details, provide screenshots as per Apple's guidelines and also fill details under **General**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the app details and screenshots"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-04.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

- Then, manually select the build.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the build selection for the app"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-05.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

> **Complete App Store listing**: To prepare the app for store listing, see [Create app store assets](/guides/store-assets/) on how to create screenshots and previews.

- Once our app is ready, click on **Submit to App Review**. After that, Apple will review our app, and if approved, the app will be available on the App Store.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="App Store Connect showing the app submission for review"
  src="/static/images/tutorial/eas/app-store-06.png"
  className="max-w-[800px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="6">

## Automated submissions

For future releases, we can streamline the process by combining build creation and App Store submission into a single step by using the [`--auto-submit`](/build/automate-submissions/) flag with `eas build`:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --platform ios --auto-submit']} />

</Step>

## Summary

<ProgressTracker
  currentChapterIndex={8}
  name="EAS_TUTORIAL"
  summary={
    <>
      We successfully created a production-ready iOS build, discussed distribution using TestFlight
      and Apple App Store using <CODE>eas submit</CODE>, and automated the release process with the{' '}
      <CODE>--auto-submit</CODE>.
    </>
  }
  nextChapterDescription="In the next chapter, learn how to use the EAS Update to send OTA updates and share previews with our team."
  nextChapterTitle="Share previews with your team"
  nextChapterLink="/tutorial/eas/team-development/"
/>
