docs/pages/workflows/control-flow.mdx, before:

---
title: Control flow
description: Learn how to control the flow of Workflows with conditions that run certain jobs based on the result of previous jobs.
---

You can control the flow of your workflows with conditions that run certain jobs based on the result of previous jobs.

## `needs`

You can add a list of previous job names using the `needs` keyword on a job. If any job from that list fails, the current job will be skipped.

```yaml .eas/workflows/prerequisite.yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  end-to-end-test:
    # @info #
    needs: [build]
    # @end #
    type: maestro
    params:
      build_id: ${{ jobs.build.outputs.build_id }}
      flow_path: ['./e2e/flow.yaml']
```

## `after`

You can add a list of previous job names using the `after` keyword on a job. Any job in the list will run after the current job completes, no matter if it succeeded or failed.

```yaml .eas/workflows/after.yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  send_slack_notification:
    after: [build]
    steps:
      - name: Send Slack notification
        inputs:
          message: 'Build completed.'
          slack_hook_url: ${{ secrets.SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL }}
```

## `if`

You can add a condition to a job with the `if` keyword. If the condition evaluates to `true`, the job will run. Otherwise, it will be skipped.

```yaml .eas/workflows/conditional.yaml
on:
	push: {} # runs on all branches

jobs:
  update:
    type: update
  build:
    name: Build iOS
    type: build
    # @info #
    if: ${{ github.ref == "refs/heads/main" }} # Will only run if on main.
    # @end #
    params:
      profile: production
      platform: ios
```

Commit message:

[docs] [ENG-14302] Update workflow flow control docs (#33403)
# Why


https://linear.app/expo/issue/ENG-14302/require-needs-to-be-successful-before-starting-a-job-even-if-the-job
Companion to: https://github.com/expo/universe/pull/17806

# How

Updated the docs regarding workflow flow control after both `needs` and
`if`, if present, are required to be successful to run the job.

# Test Plan

Tested manually
<img width="1117" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-03 at 16 50 03"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae8ebe79-2575-4cef-8d6c-6e122eb20b82">
<img width="1117" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-03 at 16 50 24"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/333e53a1-c2d4-4269-880b-7e6e2fe7a794">

# Checklist

- [x] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [x] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

---------

Co-authored-by: Aman Mittal <amandeepmittal@live.com>

docs/pages/workflows/control-flow.mdx, after:

---
title: Control flow
description: Learn how to control the flow of Workflows with conditions that run certain jobs based on the result of previous jobs.
---

You can control the flow of your workflows with conditions that run certain jobs based on the result of previous jobs.

## `needs`

You can add a list of previous job names using the `needs` keyword on a job. If any job from that list fails, the current job will be failed, and if any job from the list is skipped, the current job will be skipped as well.

```yaml .eas/workflows/prerequisite.yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  end-to-end-test:
    # @info #
    needs: [build]
    # @end #
    type: maestro
    params:
      build_id: ${{ jobs.build.outputs.build_id }}
      flow_path: ['./e2e/flow.yaml']
```

## `after`

You can add a list of previous job names using the `after` keyword on a job. Any job in the list will run after the current job completes, no matter if it succeeded or failed.

```yaml .eas/workflows/after.yaml
jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  send_slack_notification:
    after: [build]
    steps:
      - name: Send Slack notification
        inputs:
          message: 'Build completed.'
          slack_hook_url: ${{ secrets.SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL }}
```

## `if`

You can add a condition to a job with the `if` keyword. If the condition evaluates to `true`, the job will run. Otherwise, it will be skipped.

```yaml .eas/workflows/conditional.yaml
on:
	push: {} # runs on all branches

jobs:
  update:
    type: update
  build:
    name: Build iOS
    type: build
    # @info #
    if: ${{ github.ref == "refs/heads/main" }} # Will only run if on main.
    # @end #
    params:
      profile: production
      platform: ios
```

## Combining conditions

You can use both `needs` and `if` conditions in the same job definition. **Note that the job will be run if all jobs on the `needs` list are successful and the `if` condition is true.** If any job on the `needs` list has been skipped or the `if` condition is false, the current job will be skipped. If any job on the `needs` list has failed, the current job will be failed.
