docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/audio.mdx, before:

---
title: Audio (expo-audio)
description: A library that provides an API to implement audio playback and recording in apps.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-audio'
packageName: 'expo-audio'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-av.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample, ConfigPluginProperties } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { PlatformTags } from '~/ui/components/Tag';

> **warning** This page documents an upcoming version of the Audio library. **Expo audio is currently in alpha and subject to breaking changes.**

`expo-audio` is a cross-platform audio library for accessing the native audio capabilities of the device.

> **Info** Audio recording APIs are not available on tvOS (Apple TV).

Note that audio automatically stops if headphones/bluetooth audio devices are disconnected.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-audio` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-audio",
        {
          "microphonePermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your microphone."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'microphonePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the `NSMicrophoneUsageDescription` permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your microphone"',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Usage

### Playing sounds

<SnackInline
  label='Playing sounds'
  dependencies={['expo-audio', 'expo-asset']}
  files={{
    'assets/Hello.mp3': 'https://snack-code-uploads.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/~asset/c9c43b458d6daa9771a7287cae9f5b47'
  }}
>

```jsx
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { View, StyleSheet, Button } from 'react-native';
import { useAudioPlayer } from 'expo-audio';

export default function App() {
  const player = useAudioPlayer(audioSource);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Play Sound" onPress={() => player.play()} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Recording sounds

<SnackInline label='Recording sounds' dependencies={['expo-av', 'expo-asset']}>

```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import { View, StyleSheet, Button } from 'react-native';
import { useAudioRecorder, RecordingOptions, AudioModule, RecordingPresets } from 'expo-audio';

export default function App() {
  const audioRecorder = useAudioRecorder(RecordingPresets.HIGH_QUALITY);

  const record = () => audioRecorder.record();

  const stopRecording = async () => {
    // The recording will be available on `audioRecorder.uri`.
    await audioRecorder.stop();
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      const status = await AudioModule.requestRecordingPermissionsAsync();
      if (!status.granted) {
        Alert.alert('Permission to access microphone was denied');
      }
    })();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button
        title={audioRecorder.isRecording ? 'Stop Recording' : 'Start Recording'}
        onPress={audioRecorder.isRecording ? stopRecording : record}
      />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Playing or recording audio in background&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

On iOS, audio playback and recording in background is only available in standalone apps, and it requires some extra configuration.
On iOS, each background feature requires a special key in `UIBackgroundModes` array in your **Info.plist** file.
In standalone apps this array is empty by default, so to use background features you will need to add appropriate keys to your **app.json** configuration.

See an example of **app.json** that enables audio playback in background:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    ...
    "ios": {
      ...
      "infoPlist": {
        ...
        "UIBackgroundModes": [
          "audio"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Notes on web usage

- A MediaRecorder issue on Chrome produces WebM files missing the duration metadata. [See the open Chromium issue](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=642012).
- MediaRecorder encoding options and other configurations are inconsistent across browsers, utilizing a Polyfill such as [kbumsik/opus-media-recorder](https://github.com/kbumsik/opus-media-recorder) or [ai/audio-recorder-polyfill](https://github.com/ai/audio-recorder-polyfill) in your application will improve your experience. Any options passed to `prepareToRecordAsync` will be passed directly to the MediaRecorder API and as such the polyfill.
- Web browsers require sites to be served securely for them to listen to a mic. See [MediaDevices `getUserMedia()` security](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia#security) for more details.

## API

```js
import { useAudioPlayer, useAudioRecorder } from 'expo-audio';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-audio" apiName="Audio" />

Commit message:

[audio] Support creating an AudioPlayer without the hook

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/audio.mdx, after:

---
title: Audio (expo-audio)
description: A library that provides an API to implement audio playback and recording in apps.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-audio'
packageName: 'expo-audio'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-av.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample, ConfigPluginProperties } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { PlatformTags } from '~/ui/components/Tag';

> **warning** This page documents an upcoming version of the Audio library. **Expo audio is currently in alpha and subject to breaking changes.**

`expo-audio` is a cross-platform audio library for accessing the native audio capabilities of the device.

> **Info** Audio recording APIs are not available on tvOS (Apple TV).

Note that audio automatically stops if headphones/bluetooth audio devices are disconnected.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-audio` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-audio",
        {
          "microphonePermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your microphone."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'microphonePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A string to set the `NSMicrophoneUsageDescription` permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your microphone"',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Usage

### Playing sounds

<SnackInline
  label='Playing sounds'
  dependencies={['expo-audio', 'expo-asset']}
  files={{
    'assets/Hello.mp3': 'https://snack-code-uploads.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/~asset/c9c43b458d6daa9771a7287cae9f5b47'
  }}
>

```jsx
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { View, StyleSheet, Button } from 'react-native';
import { useAudioPlayer } from 'expo-audio';

export default function App() {
  const player = useAudioPlayer(audioSource);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Play Sound" onPress={() => player.play()} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Recording sounds

<SnackInline label='Recording sounds' dependencies={['expo-av', 'expo-asset']}>

```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import { View, StyleSheet, Button } from 'react-native';
import { useAudioRecorder, RecordingOptions, AudioModule, RecordingPresets } from 'expo-audio';

export default function App() {
  const audioRecorder = useAudioRecorder(RecordingPresets.HIGH_QUALITY);

  const record = () => audioRecorder.record();

  const stopRecording = async () => {
    // The recording will be available on `audioRecorder.uri`.
    await audioRecorder.stop();
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      const status = await AudioModule.requestRecordingPermissionsAsync();
      if (!status.granted) {
        Alert.alert('Permission to access microphone was denied');
      }
    })();
  }, []);

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button
        title={audioRecorder.isRecording ? 'Stop Recording' : 'Start Recording'}
        onPress={audioRecorder.isRecording ? stopRecording : record}
      />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Playing or recording audio in background&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

On iOS, audio playback and recording in background is only available in standalone apps, and it requires some extra configuration.
On iOS, each background feature requires a special key in `UIBackgroundModes` array in your **Info.plist** file.
In standalone apps this array is empty by default, so to use background features you will need to add appropriate keys to your **app.json** configuration.

See an example of **app.json** that enables audio playback in background:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    ...
    "ios": {
      ...
      "infoPlist": {
        ...
        "UIBackgroundModes": [
          "audio"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Using the AudioPlayer directly

In most cases, the [`useAudioPlayer`](#useaudioplayersource-updateinterval) hook should be used to create a `AudioPlayer` instance. It manages the player's lifecycle and ensures that it is properly disposed of when the component is unmounted. However, in some advanced use cases, it might be necessary to create a `AudioPlayer` that does not get automatically destroyed when the component is unmounted.
In those cases, the `AudioPlayer` can be created using the [`createAudioPlayer`](#audiocreateaudioplayersource-updateinterval) function. You need be aware of the risks that come with this approach, as it is your responsibility to call the [`release()`](../sdk/expo/#release) method when the player is no longer needed. If not handled properly, this approach may lead to memory leaks.

```tsx
import { createAudioPlayer } from 'expo-audio';
const player = createAudioPlayer(audioSource);
```

### Notes on web usage

- A MediaRecorder issue on Chrome produces WebM files missing the duration metadata. [See the open Chromium issue](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=642012).
- MediaRecorder encoding options and other configurations are inconsistent across browsers, utilizing a Polyfill such as [kbumsik/opus-media-recorder](https://github.com/kbumsik/opus-media-recorder) or [ai/audio-recorder-polyfill](https://github.com/ai/audio-recorder-polyfill) in your application will improve your experience. Any options passed to `prepareToRecordAsync` will be passed directly to the MediaRecorder API and as such the polyfill.
- Web browsers require sites to be served securely for them to listen to a mic. See [MediaDevices `getUserMedia()` security](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia#security) for more details.

## API

```js
import { useAudioPlayer, useAudioRecorder } from 'expo-audio';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-audio" apiName="Audio" />
