docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/auth-session.mdx, before:

---
title: AuthSession
description: A universal library that provides an API to handle browser-based authentication.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-auth-session'
packageName: 'expo-auth-session'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`AuthSession` enables web browser-based authentication (for example, browser-based OAuth flows) in your app by utilizing [WebBrowser](webbrowser.mdx) and [Crypto](crypto.mdx). For implementation details, refer to this reference, and for usage, see the [Authentication](/guides/authentication/) guide.

## Installation

> `expo-crypto` is a peer dependency and must be installed alongside `expo-auth-session`.

<APIInstallSection packageName="expo-auth-session expo-crypto" />

<ConfigReactNative>

Use the [`uri-scheme` CLI][n-uri-scheme] to easily add, remove, list, and open your URIs.

To make your native app handle `mycoolredirect://` simply run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx uri-scheme add mycoolredirect']} />

You should now be able to see a list of all your project's schemes by running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx uri-scheme list']} />

You can test it to ensure it works like this:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Rebuild the native apps, be sure to use an emulator',
    '$ yarn android',
    '$ yarn ios',
    '',
    '# Open a URI scheme',
    '$ npx uri-scheme open mycoolredirect://some/redirect',
  ]}
/>

</ConfigReactNative>

### Usage in standalone apps

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "scheme": "mycoolredirect"
  }
}
```

to be able to deep link back into your app, you will need to set a `scheme` in your project **app.config.js**, or **app.json**, and then build your standalone app (it can't be updated with an update). If you do not include a scheme, the authentication flow will complete, but it will be unable to pass the information back into your application and the user will have to manually exit the authentication modal (resulting in a canceled event).

## Guides

> The guides have moved: [Authentication Guide](/guides/authentication.mdx).

## How web browser based authentication flows work

The typical flow for browser-based authentication in mobile apps is as follows:

- **Initiation**: the user presses a sign in button
- **Open web browser**: the app opens up a web browser to the authentication provider sign in page. The url that is opened for the sign in page usually includes information to identify the app, and a URL to redirect to on success. _Note: the web browser should share cookies with your system web browser so that users do not need to sign in again if they are already authenticated on the system browser -- Expo's [WebBrowser](webbrowser.mdx) API takes care of this._
- **Authentication provider redirects**: upon successful authentication, the authentication provider should redirect back to the application by redirecting to URL provided by the app in the query parameters on the sign in page ([read more about how linking works in mobile apps](/linking/overview/)), _provided that the URL is in the allowlist of allowed redirect URLs_. Allowlisting redirect URLs is important to prevent malicious actors from pretending to be your application. The redirect includes data in the URL (such as user id and token), either in the location hash, query parameters, or both.
- **App handles redirect**: the redirect is handled by the app and data is parsed from the redirect URL.

## Security considerations

- **Never put any secret keys inside your application code, there is no secure way to do this!** Instead, you should store your secret key(s) on a server and expose an endpoint that makes API calls for your client and passes the data back.

## API

```js
import * as AuthSession from 'expo-auth-session';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-auth-session" apiName="AuthSession" />

## Advanced usage

### Filtering out AuthSession events in Linking handlers

There are many reasons why you might want to handle inbound links into your app, such as push notifications or just regular deep linking (you can read more about this in the [Linking](/linking/overview/)); authentication redirects are only one type of deep link, and `AuthSession` handles these particular links for you. In your own `Linking.addEventListener` handlers, you can filter out deep links that are handled by `AuthSession` by checking if the URL includes the `+expo-auth-session` string -- if it does, you can ignore it. This works because `AuthSession` adds `+expo-auth-session` to the default `returnUrl`; however, if you provide your own `returnUrl`, you may want to consider adding a similar identifier to enable you to filter out `AuthSession` events from other handlers.

### With React Navigation

If you are using deep linking with React Navigation, filtering through `Linking.addEventListener` will not be sufficient because deep linking is [handled differently](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/configuring-links/#advanced-cases). Instead, to filter these events, add a custom `getStateFromPath` function to your linking configuration, and then filter by URL in the same way as described above.

[n-uri-scheme]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/uri-scheme

Commit message:

[docs] Add a providers section in AuthSession API reference (#31918)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

Follow up #31890 and based on feedback from @keith-kurak. 

# How

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

Add a section about providers that describes using development builds
and native libraries (if available) with examples of Google and
Facebook.

Changes applied to unversioned AuthSession API reference.

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

See diff.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [x] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

---------

Co-authored-by: Keith Kurak <keith.kurak@gmail.com>

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/auth-session.mdx, after:

---
title: AuthSession
description: A universal library that provides an API to handle browser-based authentication.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-auth-session'
packageName: 'expo-auth-session'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`AuthSession` enables web browser-based authentication (for example, browser-based OAuth flows) in your app by utilizing [WebBrowser](webbrowser.mdx) and [Crypto](crypto.mdx). For implementation details, refer to this reference, and for usage, see the [Authentication](/guides/authentication/) guide.

> **Note:** `AuthSession` enables general-purpose OAuth and OpenID Connect browser-based auth workflows. Where available, we recommend using a library supplied by your identity provider, as it will handle implementation details specific to that provider. For example, use [`@react-native-google-signin/google-signin`](/guides/google-authentication/) for Google authentication and [`react-native-fbsdk-next`](/guides/facebook-authentication/) for Facebook. For more information, see [Authentication](/develop/authentication/) overview.

## Installation

> `expo-crypto` is a peer dependency and must be installed alongside `expo-auth-session`.

<APIInstallSection packageName="expo-auth-session expo-crypto" />

<ConfigReactNative>

Use the [`uri-scheme` CLI][n-uri-scheme] to easily add, remove, list, and open your URIs.

To make your native app handle `mycoolredirect://` simply run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx uri-scheme add mycoolredirect']} />

You should now be able to see a list of all your project's schemes by running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx uri-scheme list']} />

You can test it to ensure it works like this:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Rebuild the native apps, be sure to use an emulator',
    '$ yarn android',
    '$ yarn ios',
    '',
    '# Open a URI scheme',
    '$ npx uri-scheme open mycoolredirect://some/redirect',
  ]}
/>

</ConfigReactNative>

### Usage in standalone apps

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "scheme": "mycoolredirect"
  }
}
```

to be able to deep link back into your app, you will need to set a `scheme` in your project **app.config.js**, or **app.json**, and then build your standalone app (it can't be updated with an update). If you do not include a scheme, the authentication flow will complete, but it will be unable to pass the information back into your application and the user will have to manually exit the authentication modal (resulting in a canceled event).

## Guides

> The guides have moved: [Authentication Guide](/guides/authentication.mdx).

## How web browser based authentication flows work

The typical flow for browser-based authentication in mobile apps is as follows:

- **Initiation**: the user presses a sign in button
- **Open web browser**: the app opens up a web browser to the authentication provider sign in page. The url that is opened for the sign in page usually includes information to identify the app, and a URL to redirect to on success. _Note: the web browser should share cookies with your system web browser so that users do not need to sign in again if they are already authenticated on the system browser -- Expo's [WebBrowser](webbrowser.mdx) API takes care of this._
- **Authentication provider redirects**: upon successful authentication, the authentication provider should redirect back to the application by redirecting to URL provided by the app in the query parameters on the sign in page ([read more about how linking works in mobile apps](/linking/overview/)), _provided that the URL is in the allowlist of allowed redirect URLs_. Allowlisting redirect URLs is important to prevent malicious actors from pretending to be your application. The redirect includes data in the URL (such as user id and token), either in the location hash, query parameters, or both.
- **App handles redirect**: the redirect is handled by the app and data is parsed from the redirect URL.

## Security considerations

- **Never put any secret keys inside your application code, there is no secure way to do this!** Instead, you should store your secret key(s) on a server and expose an endpoint that makes API calls for your client and passes the data back.

## API

```js
import * as AuthSession from 'expo-auth-session';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-auth-session" apiName="AuthSession" />

## Advanced usage

### Filtering out AuthSession events in Linking handlers

There are many reasons why you might want to handle inbound links into your app, such as push notifications or just regular deep linking (you can read more about this in the [Linking](/linking/overview/)); authentication redirects are only one type of deep link, and `AuthSession` handles these particular links for you. In your own `Linking.addEventListener` handlers, you can filter out deep links that are handled by `AuthSession` by checking if the URL includes the `+expo-auth-session` string -- if it does, you can ignore it. This works because `AuthSession` adds `+expo-auth-session` to the default `returnUrl`; however, if you provide your own `returnUrl`, you may want to consider adding a similar identifier to enable you to filter out `AuthSession` events from other handlers.

### With React Navigation

If you are using deep linking with React Navigation, filtering through `Linking.addEventListener` will not be sufficient because deep linking is [handled differently](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/configuring-links/#advanced-cases). Instead, to filter these events, add a custom `getStateFromPath` function to your linking configuration, and then filter by URL in the same way as described above.

[n-uri-scheme]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/uri-scheme
