docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/background-task.mdx, before:

---
title: BackgroundTask
description: A library that provides an API for running background tasks.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-background-task'
packageName: 'expo-background-task'
platforms: ['android', 'ios']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { PlatformTags } from '~/ui/components/Tag/PlatformTags';

`expo-background-task` provides an API to run deferrable background tasks in a way that optimizes battery and power consumption on the end user's device. This module uses the [`WorkManager`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/workmanager) API on Android and the [`BGTaskScheduler`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks/bgtaskscheduler) API on iOS to schedule tasks. It also uses the [expo-task-manager](task-manager.mdx) Native API to run JavaScript tasks.

## Background tasks

A background task is a deferrable unit of work that is performed in the background, outside your app's lifecycle. This is useful for tasks that need to be executed when the app is inactive, such as syncing data with a server, fetching new content, or even checking if there are any [`expo-updates`](updates.mdx).

### When are background tasks run?

The Expo Background Task API leverages each platform to execute tasks at the most optimal time for both the user and the device.

This means that the task may not run immediately after it is scheduled, but it will run at some point in the future if the system decides so.

A background task will only run if the battery has enough charge (or the device is plugged into power) and the network is available. Without these conditions, the task won't execute. The exact behavior will vary depending on the operating system.

### When will they stop?

The native platform APIs will stop running background tasks if the user explicitly kills the app (they will be resumed when the user restarts the app) or if the app is uninstalled. If the device is rebooted or the app is killed by the system, the background tasks will be resumed.

> **Info** The non-deterministic behavior of background tasks is intentional, aimed at optimizing battery life and enhancing user experience. If a user force stops an app, the system interprets this as a signal not to run background tasks for that app until the user restarts it. On iOS an app is force stopped if the user swipes up on the app in the app switcher. On Android this behaviour depends on the device vendor. Some vendors have implementations where the app is force stopped when the user removes the app from the recent apps list.

## Platform differences

### Android&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['android']} />

On Android, the [`WorkManager`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/workmanager) API allows specifying a minimum interval for a task to run (at least 15 minutes). The task will execute sometime after the interval has passed, provided the specified conditions are met.

### iOS&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

On iOS, the [`BGTaskScheduler`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks/bgtaskscheduler) API decides the best time to launch your background task. The system will consider the battery level, the network availability, and the user's usage patterns to determine when to run the task.

## Known limitations

### iOS&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

The [`Background Tasks`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks) API on iOS is not available on simulators, it is only available when running on a physical device.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

To be able to run background tasks on iOS, you need to add the `processing` value to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in your app's **Info.plist** file. This is required for background fetch to work properly.

**If you're using [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**, the required `UIBackgroundModes` configuration will be applied automatically by prebuild.

<Collapsible summary="Configure UIBackgroundModes manually on iOS">

If you're not using Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)), then you'll need to add the following to your **Info.plist** file:

```xml ios/project-name/Supporting/Info.plist
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
  <array>
    <string>processing</string>
  </array>
</key>
```

</Collapsible>

## Usage

Below is an example that demonstrates how to use `expo-background-task`.

```tsx App.tsx
import * as BackgroundTask from 'expo-background-task';
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View, Button } from 'react-native';

const BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER = 'background-task';

// Register and create the task so that it is available also when the background task screen
// (a React component defined later in this example) is not visible.
// Note: This needs to be called in the global scope, not in a React component.
TaskManager.defineTask(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER, async () => {
  try {
    const now = Date.now();
    console.log(`Got background task call at date: ${new Date(now).toISOString()}`);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Failed to execute the background task:', error);
    return BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskResult.Failed;
  }
  return BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskResult.Success;
});

// 2. Register the task at some point in your app by providing the same name
// Note: This does NOT need to be in the global scope and CAN be used in your React components!
async function registerBackgroundTaskAsync() {
  return BackgroundTask.registerTaskAsync(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER);
}

// 3. (Optional) Unregister tasks by specifying the task name
// This will cancel any future background task calls that match the given name
// Note: This does NOT need to be in the global scope and CAN be used in your React components!
async function unregisterBackgroundTaskAsync() {
  return BackgroundTask.unregisterTaskAsync(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER);
}

export default function BackgroundTaskScreen() {
  const [isRegistered, setIsRegistered] = useState<boolean>(false);
  const [status, setStatus] = useState<BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    checkStatusAsync();
  }, []);

  const checkStatusAsync = async () => {
    const status = await BackgroundTask.getStatusAsync();
    setStatus(status);
  };

  const toggle = async () => {
    if (isRegistered) {
      await registerBackgroundTaskAsync();
    } else {
      await unregisterBackgroundTaskAsync();
    }
    setIsRegistered(!isRegistered);
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.screen}>
      <View style={styles.textContainer}>
        <Text>
          Background Task Service Availability:{' '}
          <Text style={styles.boldText}>
            {status ? BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus[status] : null}
          </Text>
        </Text>
      </View>
      <Button
        disabled={status === BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus.Restricted}
        title={isRegistered ? 'Cancel Background Task' : 'Schedule Background Task'}
        onPress={toggle}
      />
      <Button title="Check Background Task Status" onPress={checkStatusAsync} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  screen: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
  },
  textContainer: {
    margin: 10,
  },
  boldText: {
    fontWeight: 'bold',
  },
});
```

## Testing background tasks

Background tasks can be difficult to test because they can be triggered inconsistently by the system. Fortunately, Expo Background Task contains some tools that help make testing background tasks easier.

### Android&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['android']} />

On Android, the easiest way to test background tasks is to register a task. When the app is in `debug` mode, a background task should be started as soon as possible, while in release mode, it will wait until the minimum interval has passed before running the task.

> In release mode, the app must be in the background for the background task to run, while in debug mode, the task will run even if the app is in the foreground.

### iOS&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

On iOS, testing background tasks is done by [simulating](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks/starting-and-terminating-tasks-during-development#Launch-a-Task) the launch of the task. This can be done by calling the `triggerTaskWorkerForTestingAsync` method in JavaScript.

Expo Background Task has a convenient helper on iOS that triggers executing the background task worker. This will only work in `debug` mode:

```ts
import * as BackgroundTask from 'expo-background-task';

export const triggerBackgroundTask = async () => {
  await BackgroundTask.triggerTaskWorkerForTestingAsync();
};
```

## Multiple background tasks

Since the Background Tasks API on iOS and the WorkManager API on Android limit the number of tasks that can be scheduled for a single app, Expo Background Task uses a single worker on both platforms. While you can define multiple JavaScript background tasks, they will all run through this single worker.

On Android, the first registered background task determines the minimum interval for execution.

## API

```js
import * as BackgroundTask from 'expo-background-task';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-background-task" apiName="BackgroundTask" />

Commit message:

[codereview] simplified docs
- Simplified the sections about running/stopping
- Updated testing to include reference to upcoming dev tools plugin
- generated API docs

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/background-task.mdx, after:

---
title: BackgroundTask
description: A library that provides an API for running background tasks.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-background-task'
packageName: 'expo-background-task'
platforms: ['android', 'ios']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { PlatformTags } from '~/ui/components/Tag/PlatformTags';

`expo-background-task` provides an API to run deferrable background tasks in a way that optimizes battery and power consumption on the end user's device. This module uses the [`WorkManager`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/workmanager) API on Android and the [`BGTaskScheduler`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks/bgtaskscheduler) API on iOS to schedule tasks. It also uses the [expo-task-manager](task-manager.mdx) Native API to run JavaScript tasks.

## Background tasks

A background task is a deferrable unit of work that is performed in the background, outside your app's lifecycle. This is useful for tasks that need to be executed when the app is inactive, such as syncing data with a server, fetching new content, or even checking if there are any [`expo-updates`](updates.mdx).

### When are background tasks run?

The Expo Background Task API leverages each platform to execute tasks at the most optimal time for both the user and the device when the app is in the background.

This means that the task may not run immediately after it is scheduled, but it will run at some point in the future if the system decides so. You can specify a minimum interval in minutes for the task to run. The task will execute sometime after the interval has passed, provided the specified conditions are met.

A background task will only run if the battery has enough charge (or the device is plugged into power) and the network is available. Without these conditions, the task won't execute. The exact behavior will vary depending on the operating system.

### When will they be stopped?

Background tasks are managed by platform APIs and system constraints. Knowing when tasks stop helps plan their use effectively.

- Background tasks are stopped if the user kills the app. Tasks resume when the app is restarted.
- If the system stops the app or the device reboots, background tasks will resume, and the app will be restarted.

On Android, removing an app from the recent apps list doesn't completely stop it, whereas on iOS, swiping it away in the app switcher fully terminates it.

> **Info** On Android, behavior varies by device vendor. For example, some implementations treat removing an app from the recent apps list as killing it. Read more about these differences here: [https://dontkillmyapp.com](https://dontkillmyapp.com).

## Platform differences

### Android&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['android']} />

On Android, the [`WorkManager`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/workmanager) API allows specifying a minimum interval for a task to run (minimum 15 minutes). The task will execute sometime after the interval has passed, provided the specified conditions are met.

### iOS&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

On iOS, the [`BGTaskScheduler`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks/bgtaskscheduler) API decides the best time to launch your background task. The system will consider the battery level, the network availability, and the user's usage patterns to determine when to run the task. You can still specify a minimum interval for the task to run, but the system may choose to run the task at a later time.

## Known limitations

### iOS&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

The [`Background Tasks`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/backgroundtasks) API on iOS is not available on simulators, it is only available when running on a physical device.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration&ensp;<PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} />

To be able to run background tasks on iOS, you need to add the `processing` value to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in your app's **Info.plist** file. This is required for background fetch to work properly.

**If you're using [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**, the required `UIBackgroundModes` configuration will be applied automatically by prebuild.

<Collapsible summary="Configure UIBackgroundModes manually on iOS">

If you're not using Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)), then you'll need to add the following to your **Info.plist** file:

```xml ios/project-name/Supporting/Info.plist
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
  <array>
    <string>processing</string>
  </array>
</key>
```

</Collapsible>

## Usage

Below is an example that demonstrates how to use `expo-background-task`.

```tsx App.tsx
import * as BackgroundTask from 'expo-background-task';
import * as TaskManager from 'expo-task-manager';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View, Button } from 'react-native';

const BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER = 'background-task';

// Register and create the task so that it is available also when the background task screen
// (a React component defined later in this example) is not visible.
// Note: This needs to be called in the global scope, not in a React component.
TaskManager.defineTask(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER, async () => {
  try {
    const now = Date.now();
    console.log(`Got background task call at date: ${new Date(now).toISOString()}`);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Failed to execute the background task:', error);
    return BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskResult.Failed;
  }
  return BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskResult.Success;
});

// 2. Register the task at some point in your app by providing the same name
// Note: This does NOT need to be in the global scope and CAN be used in your React components!
async function registerBackgroundTaskAsync() {
  return BackgroundTask.registerTaskAsync(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER);
}

// 3. (Optional) Unregister tasks by specifying the task name
// This will cancel any future background task calls that match the given name
// Note: This does NOT need to be in the global scope and CAN be used in your React components!
async function unregisterBackgroundTaskAsync() {
  return BackgroundTask.unregisterTaskAsync(BACKGROUND_TASK_IDENTIFIER);
}

export default function BackgroundTaskScreen() {
  const [isRegistered, setIsRegistered] = useState<boolean>(false);
  const [status, setStatus] = useState<BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    checkStatusAsync();
  }, []);

  const checkStatusAsync = async () => {
    const status = await BackgroundTask.getStatusAsync();
    setStatus(status);
  };

  const toggle = async () => {
    if (isRegistered) {
      await registerBackgroundTaskAsync();
    } else {
      await unregisterBackgroundTaskAsync();
    }
    setIsRegistered(!isRegistered);
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.screen}>
      <View style={styles.textContainer}>
        <Text>
          Background Task Service Availability:{' '}
          <Text style={styles.boldText}>
            {status ? BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus[status] : null}
          </Text>
        </Text>
      </View>
      <Button
        disabled={status === BackgroundTask.BackgroundTaskStatus.Restricted}
        title={isRegistered ? 'Cancel Background Task' : 'Schedule Background Task'}
        onPress={toggle}
      />
      <Button title="Check Background Task Status" onPress={checkStatusAsync} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  screen: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
  },
  textContainer: {
    margin: 10,
  },
  boldText: {
    fontWeight: 'bold',
  },
});
```

## Testing background tasks

Background tasks can be difficult to test because they can be triggered inconsistently by the system. Fortunately, Expo Background Task contains some tools that help make testing background tasks easier.

`expo-background-tasks` has a dev tools plugin that can be used to trigger background tasks.

Add the following code to your app to use the plugin:

```tsx
import { useExpoBackgroundTaskDevPlugin } from 'expo-background-task/devtools';

export default App() {
  useExpoBackgroundTaskDevPlugin();
  return (/* rest of your app */)
}
```

To trigger background tasks, start the dev server with `npx expo start` and press `shift + m` to open the list of available dev tools plugins. Select `Open expo-background-task`, and a new Chrome Window will be opened.

## Multiple background tasks

Since the Background Tasks API on iOS and the WorkManager API on Android limit the number of tasks that can be scheduled for a single app, Expo Background Task uses a single worker on both platforms. While you can define multiple JavaScript background tasks, they will all run through this single worker.

The last registered background task determines the minimum interval for execution.

## API

```js
import * as BackgroundTask from 'expo-background-task';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-background-task" apiName="BackgroundTask" />
