docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/barometer.mdx, before:

---
title: Barometer
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';

`Barometer` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device barometer sensor to respond to changes in air pressure, which is measured in hectopascals (`hPa`).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Barometer usage' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} platforms={['android', 'ios']}>

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View, Platform } from 'react-native';
import { Barometer } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [{ pressure, relativeAltitude }, setData] = useState({ pressure: 0, relativeAltitude: 0 });
  const [subscription, setSubscription] = useState(null);

  const toggleListener = () => {
    subscription ? unsubscribe() : subscribe();
  };

  const subscribe = () => {
    setSubscription(Barometer.addListener(setData));
  };

  const unsubscribe = () => {
    subscription && subscription.remove();
    setSubscription(null);
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.wrapper}>
      <Text>Barometer: Listener {subscription ? 'ACTIVE' : 'INACTIVE'}</Text>
      <Text>Pressure: {pressure} hPa</Text>
      <Text>
        Relative Altitude:{' '}
        {Platform.OS === 'ios' ? `${relativeAltitude} m` : `Only available on iOS`}
      </Text>
      <TouchableOpacity onPress={toggleListener} style={styles.button}>
        <Text>Toggle listener</Text>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  button: {
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  wrapper: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 20,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { Barometer } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-barometer" />

## Units and Providers

| OS      | Units      | Provider                                                                                                | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| iOS     | _`hPa`_    | [`CMAltimeter`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coremotion/cmaltimeter)                       | Altitude events reflect the change in the current altitude, not the absolute altitude.                                              |
| Android | _`hPa`_    | [`Sensor.TYPE_PRESSURE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/hardware/Sensor#TYPE_PRESSURE) | Monitoring air pressure changes.                                                                                                    |
| Web     | <NoIcon /> | <NoIcon />                                                                                              | This sensor is not available on the web and cannot be accessed. An `UnavailabilityError` will be thrown if you attempt to get data. |

Commit message:

Add description for Barometer, Battery, Blur View, Brightness, Build Properties, Calendar

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/barometer.mdx, after:

---
title: Barometer
description: A library that provides access to device's barometer sensor.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';

`Barometer` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device barometer sensor to respond to changes in air pressure, which is measured in hectopascals (`hPa`).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Basic Barometer usage' dependencies={['expo-sensors']} platforms={['android', 'ios']}>

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View, Platform } from 'react-native';
import { Barometer } from 'expo-sensors';

export default function App() {
  const [{ pressure, relativeAltitude }, setData] = useState({ pressure: 0, relativeAltitude: 0 });
  const [subscription, setSubscription] = useState(null);

  const toggleListener = () => {
    subscription ? unsubscribe() : subscribe();
  };

  const subscribe = () => {
    setSubscription(Barometer.addListener(setData));
  };

  const unsubscribe = () => {
    subscription && subscription.remove();
    setSubscription(null);
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.wrapper}>
      <Text>Barometer: Listener {subscription ? 'ACTIVE' : 'INACTIVE'}</Text>
      <Text>Pressure: {pressure} hPa</Text>
      <Text>
        Relative Altitude:{' '}
        {Platform.OS === 'ios' ? `${relativeAltitude} m` : `Only available on iOS`}
      </Text>
      <TouchableOpacity onPress={toggleListener} style={styles.button}>
        <Text>Toggle listener</Text>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  button: {
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  wrapper: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 20,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { Barometer } from 'expo-sensors';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-barometer" />

## Units and Providers

| OS      | Units      | Provider                                                                                                | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| iOS     | _`hPa`_    | [`CMAltimeter`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coremotion/cmaltimeter)                       | Altitude events reflect the change in the current altitude, not the absolute altitude.                                              |
| Android | _`hPa`_    | [`Sensor.TYPE_PRESSURE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/hardware/Sensor#TYPE_PRESSURE) | Monitoring air pressure changes.                                                                                                    |
| Web     | <NoIcon /> | <NoIcon />                                                                                              | This sensor is not available on the web and cannot be accessed. An `UnavailabilityError` will be thrown if you attempt to get data. |
