docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/document-picker.mdx, before:

---
title: DocumentPicker
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-document-picker'
packageName: 'expo-document-picker'
---

import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';

`expo-document-picker` provides access to the system's UI for selecting documents from the available providers on the user's device.

<Video file={'sdk/documentpicker.mp4'} loop={false} />

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-document-picker` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>

If you want to enable [iCloud storage features][icloud-entitlement], set the `expo.ios.usesIcloudStorage` key to `true` in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) file as specified [configuration properties](/versions/latest/config/app/#usesicloudstorage).

Running [EAS Build](/build/introduction) locally will use [iOS capabilities signing](/build-reference/ios-capabilities) to enable the required capabilities before building.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-document-picker",
        {
          "iCloudContainerEnvironment": "Production"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'iCloudContainerEnvironment',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `com.apple.developer.icloud-container-environment` entitlement used for AdHoc iOS builds. Possible values: `Development`, `Production`. [Learn more](https://github.com/expo/eas-cli/issues/693).',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Apps that don't use [EAS Build](/build/introduction) and want [iCloud storage features][icloud-entitlement] must [manually configure](/build-reference/ios-capabilities#manual-setup) the [**iCloud service with CloudKit support**](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/entitlements/com_apple_developer_icloud-container-environment) for their bundle identifier.

If you enable the **iCloud** capability through the [Apple Developer Console](/build-reference/ios-capabilities#apple-developer-console), then be sure to add the following entitlements in your `ios/[app]/[app].entitlements` file (where `dev.expo.my-app` if your bundle identifier):

```xml
<key>com.apple.developer.icloud-container-identifiers</key>
<array>
    <string>iCloud.dev.expo.my-app</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.icloud-services</key>
<array>
    <string>CloudDocuments</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.ubiquity-container-identifiers</key>
<array>
    <string>iCloud.dev.expo.my-app</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.ubiquity-kvstore-identifier</key>
<string>$(TeamIdentifierPrefix)dev.expo.my-app</string>
```

Apple Developer Console also requires an **iCloud Container** to be created. When registering the new container, you are asked to provide a description and identifier for the container. You may enter any name under the description. Under the identifier, add `iCloud.<your_bundle_identifier>` (same value used for `com.apple.developer.icloud-container-identifiers` and `com.apple.developer.ubiquity-container-identifiers` entitlements).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Using with `expo-file-system`

When using `expo-document-picker` with [`expo-file-system`](/versions/latest/sdk/filesystem/), it's not always possible for the file system to read the file immediately after the `expo-document-picker` picks it.

To allow the `expo-file-system` to read the file immediately after it is picked, you'll need to ensure that the [`copyToCacheDirectory`](#documentpickeroptions) option is set to `true`.

## API

```js
import * as DocumentPicker from 'expo-document-picker';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-document-picker" apiName="DocumentPicker" />

[icloud-entitlement]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/entitlements/com_apple_developer_icloud-services

Commit message:

Add description for Crypto, DateTimePicker, DeviceMotion, Document Picker, Face Detector

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/document-picker.mdx, after:

---
title: DocumentPicker
description: A library that provides access to the system's UI for selecting documents from the available providers on the user's device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-document-picker'
packageName: 'expo-document-picker'
---

import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';

`expo-document-picker` provides access to the system's UI for selecting documents from the available providers on the user's device.

<Video file={'sdk/documentpicker.mp4'} loop={false} />

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-document-picker` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>

If you want to enable [iCloud storage features][icloud-entitlement], set the `expo.ios.usesIcloudStorage` key to `true` in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) file as specified [configuration properties](/versions/latest/config/app/#usesicloudstorage).

Running [EAS Build](/build/introduction) locally will use [iOS capabilities signing](/build-reference/ios-capabilities) to enable the required capabilities before building.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-document-picker",
        {
          "iCloudContainerEnvironment": "Production"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'iCloudContainerEnvironment',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `com.apple.developer.icloud-container-environment` entitlement used for AdHoc iOS builds. Possible values: `Development`, `Production`. [Learn more](https://github.com/expo/eas-cli/issues/693).',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Apps that don't use [EAS Build](/build/introduction) and want [iCloud storage features][icloud-entitlement] must [manually configure](/build-reference/ios-capabilities#manual-setup) the [**iCloud service with CloudKit support**](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/entitlements/com_apple_developer_icloud-container-environment) for their bundle identifier.

If you enable the **iCloud** capability through the [Apple Developer Console](/build-reference/ios-capabilities#apple-developer-console), then be sure to add the following entitlements in your `ios/[app]/[app].entitlements` file (where `dev.expo.my-app` if your bundle identifier):

```xml
<key>com.apple.developer.icloud-container-identifiers</key>
<array>
    <string>iCloud.dev.expo.my-app</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.icloud-services</key>
<array>
    <string>CloudDocuments</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.ubiquity-container-identifiers</key>
<array>
    <string>iCloud.dev.expo.my-app</string>
</array>
<key>com.apple.developer.ubiquity-kvstore-identifier</key>
<string>$(TeamIdentifierPrefix)dev.expo.my-app</string>
```

Apple Developer Console also requires an **iCloud Container** to be created. When registering the new container, you are asked to provide a description and identifier for the container. You may enter any name under the description. Under the identifier, add `iCloud.<your_bundle_identifier>` (same value used for `com.apple.developer.icloud-container-identifiers` and `com.apple.developer.ubiquity-container-identifiers` entitlements).

</ConfigReactNative>

## Using with `expo-file-system`

When using `expo-document-picker` with [`expo-file-system`](/versions/latest/sdk/filesystem/), it's not always possible for the file system to read the file immediately after the `expo-document-picker` picks it.

To allow the `expo-file-system` to read the file immediately after it is picked, you'll need to ensure that the [`copyToCacheDirectory`](#documentpickeroptions) option is set to `true`.

## API

```js
import * as DocumentPicker from 'expo-document-picker';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-document-picker" apiName="DocumentPicker" />

[icloud-entitlement]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/entitlements/com_apple_developer_icloud-services
