docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/filesystem-next.mdx, before:

---
title: FileSystem (next)
description: A library that provides access to the local file system on the device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-file-system/next'
packageName: 'expo-file-system'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-file-system.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'tvos']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';

> **info** The `next` version of the FileSystem API is included in the `expo-file-system` library. It can be used alongside the previous API, and offers a simplified, object oriented way of performing filesystem operations.

`expo-file-system/next` provides access to the file system stored locally on the device. It can also download files from the network.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

### Writing and reading text files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.cache, 'example.txt');
  file.create(); // can throw an error if the file already exists or no permission to create it
  file.write('Hello, world!');
  console.log(file.text()); // Hello, world!
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Downloading files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

const url = 'https://pdfobject.com/pdf/sample.pdf';
const destination = new Directory(Paths.cache, 'pdfs');
try {
  destination.create();
  const output = await File.downloadFileAsync(url, destination);
  console.log(output.exists); // true
  console.log(output.uri); // path to the downloaded file, e.g. '${cacheDirectory}/pdfs/sample.pdf'
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Moving and copying files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.document, 'example.txt');
  file.create();
  console.log(file.uri); // '${documentDirectory}/example.txt'
  file.move(Paths.cache);
  console.log(file.uri); // '${cacheDirectory}/example.txt'
  file.move(new Directory(Paths.cache, 'newFolder'));
  console.log(file.uri); // '${cacheDirectory}/newFolder/example.txt'
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Using legacy FileSystem API

```ts example.ts
import { FileSystem } from 'expo-file-system';
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.cache, 'example.txt');
  const content = await FileSystem.readAsStringAsync(file.uri);
  console.log(content);
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Listing directory contents recursively

```ts example.ts
import { Directory, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

function printDirectory(directory: Directory, indent: number = 0) {
  console.log(`${' '.repeat(indent)} + ${directory.name}`);
  const contents = directory.list();
  for (const item of contents) {
    if (item instanceof Directory) {
      printDirectory(item, indent + 2);
    } else {
      console.log(`${' '.repeat(indent + 2)} - ${item.name} (${item.size} bytes)`);
    }
  }
}

try {
  printDirectory(new Directory(Paths.cache));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

## API

<APISection packageName="expo-file-system-next" apiName="FileSystem Next" />

Commit message:

[expo-file-system][next] Disable in Expo Go. (#31938)
# Why

We don't want to support this exact version of the module for the next 3
months while it will be (hopefully) undergoing quite fast changes. So
let's make this consistent and disable the module for both iOS and
Android.

# How

Reading `ExponentConstants` `appOwnership` to check if the module is
loaded in Expo Go, and if so replacing the native part with a stub that
throws descriptive errors.

# Test Plan

Tested both BareExpo and Expo Go, added test suite tests.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [x] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [x] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

---------

Co-authored-by: Expo Bot <34669131+expo-bot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Wojciech Dróżdż <31368152+behenate@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/filesystem-next.mdx, after:

---
title: FileSystem (next)
description: A library that provides access to the local file system on the device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-file-system/next'
packageName: 'expo-file-system'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-file-system.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'tvos']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';

> **info** The `next` version of the FileSystem API is included in the `expo-file-system` library. It can be used alongside the previous API, and offers a simplified, object oriented way of performing filesystem operations.

`expo-file-system/next` provides access to the file system stored locally on the device. It can also download files from the network.

> **info** To provide quicker updates, `expo-file-system/next` is currently unsupported in Expo Go and Snack. To use it, create a [development build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/).

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

### Writing and reading text files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.cache, 'example.txt');
  file.create(); // can throw an error if the file already exists or no permission to create it
  file.write('Hello, world!');
  console.log(file.text()); // Hello, world!
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Downloading files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

const url = 'https://pdfobject.com/pdf/sample.pdf';
const destination = new Directory(Paths.cache, 'pdfs');
try {
  destination.create();
  const output = await File.downloadFileAsync(url, destination);
  console.log(output.exists); // true
  console.log(output.uri); // path to the downloaded file, e.g. '${cacheDirectory}/pdfs/sample.pdf'
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Moving and copying files

```ts example.ts
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.document, 'example.txt');
  file.create();
  console.log(file.uri); // '${documentDirectory}/example.txt'
  file.move(Paths.cache);
  console.log(file.uri); // '${cacheDirectory}/example.txt'
  file.move(new Directory(Paths.cache, 'newFolder'));
  console.log(file.uri); // '${cacheDirectory}/newFolder/example.txt'
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Using legacy FileSystem API

```ts example.ts
import { FileSystem } from 'expo-file-system';
import { File, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

try {
  const file = new File(Paths.cache, 'example.txt');
  const content = await FileSystem.readAsStringAsync(file.uri);
  console.log(content);
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

### Listing directory contents recursively

```ts example.ts
import { Directory, Paths } from 'expo-file-system/next';

function printDirectory(directory: Directory, indent: number = 0) {
  console.log(`${' '.repeat(indent)} + ${directory.name}`);
  const contents = directory.list();
  for (const item of contents) {
    if (item instanceof Directory) {
      printDirectory(item, indent + 2);
    } else {
      console.log(`${' '.repeat(indent + 2)} - ${item.name} (${item.size} bytes)`);
    }
  }
}

try {
  printDirectory(new Directory(Paths.cache));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
```

## API

<APISection packageName="expo-file-system-next" apiName="FileSystem Next" />
