docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/haptics.mdx, before:

---
title: Haptics
description: A library that provides access to the system's vibration effects on Android and the haptics engine on iOS.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-haptics'
packageName: 'expo-haptics'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-haptics.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-haptics` provides haptic (touch) feedback for:

- Android devices using Vibrator system service.
- iOS 10+ devices using the Taptic Engine.

On iOS, the Taptic engine will do nothing if any of the following conditions are true on a user's device:

- Low Power Mode is enabled. This can be detected with [`expo-battery`](./battery/).
- User disabled the Taptic Engine in settings.
- iOS Camera is active (to prevent destabilization).
- iOS dictation is active (to not disturb the microphone input).

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this library requires permission to control vibration on the device. The `VIBRATE` permission is added automatically.

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Haptics usage' dependencies={['expo-haptics']}>

```jsx
import { StyleSheet, View, Text, Button } from 'react-native';
import * as Haptics from 'expo-haptics';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.selectionAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button title="Selection" onPress={() => /* @info */ Haptics.selectionAsync() /* @end */} />
      </View>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.notificationAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button
          title="Success"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Success
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Error"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Error
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Warning"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Warning
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
      </View>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.impactAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button
          title="Light"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Light) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Medium"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Medium) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Heavy"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Heavy) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Rigid"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Rigid) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Soft"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Soft) /* @end */
          }
        />
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 16,
  },
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 10,
    marginBottom: 30,
    justifyContent: 'space-between',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as Haptics from 'expo-haptics';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-haptics" apiName="Haptics" />

Commit message:

[haptics][web] Add web support using Web Vibration API (#34131)
Co-authored-by: Aman Mittal <amandeepmittal@live.com>

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/haptics.mdx, after:

---
title: Haptics
description: A library that provides access to the system's vibration effects on Android, the haptics engine on iOS, and the Web Vibration API on web.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-haptics'
packageName: 'expo-haptics'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-haptics.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-haptics` provides haptic (touch) feedback for:

- Android devices using Vibrator system service.
- iOS 10+ devices using the Taptic Engine.
- Web platforms using the Web Vibration API.

On iOS, the Taptic engine will do nothing if any of the following conditions are true on a user's device:

- Low Power Mode is enabled. This can be detected with [`expo-battery`](./battery/).
- User disabled the Taptic Engine in settings.
- iOS Camera is active (to prevent destabilization).
- iOS dictation is active (to not disturb the microphone input).

On web, the library uses the Web Vibration API. Note the following:

- The API must be supported by the browser (check [browser compatibility](https://caniuse.com/vibration))
- The device must have vibration hardware
- The user must grant permission to use vibration (usually automatic)
- Some browsers may ignore vibration in certain contexts (for example, background tabs)

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration

On Android, this library requires permission to control vibration on the device. The `VIBRATE` permission is added automatically.

## Usage

<SnackInline label='Haptics usage' dependencies={['expo-haptics']}>

```jsx
import { StyleSheet, View, Text, Button } from 'react-native';
import * as Haptics from 'expo-haptics';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.selectionAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button title="Selection" onPress={() => /* @info */ Haptics.selectionAsync() /* @end */} />
      </View>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.notificationAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button
          title="Success"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Success
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Error"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Error
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Warning"
          onPress={
            () =>
              /* @info */ Haptics.notificationAsync(
                Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Warning
              ) /* @end */
          }
        />
      </View>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Haptics.impactAsync</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <Button
          title="Light"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Light) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Medium"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Medium) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Heavy"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Heavy) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Rigid"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Rigid) /* @end */
          }
        />
        <Button
          title="Soft"
          onPress={
            () => /* @info */ Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Soft) /* @end */
          }
        />
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 16,
  },
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 10,
    marginBottom: 30,
    justifyContent: 'space-between',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import * as Haptics from 'expo-haptics';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-haptics" apiName="Haptics" />
