docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/map-view.mdx, before:

---
title: MapView
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps'
packageName: 'react-native-maps'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

`react-native-maps` provides a Map component that uses Google Maps on Android and Apple Maps or Google Maps on iOS.

No additional setup is required when testing your project using Expo Go. However, **to deploy the app binary on app stores** additional steps are required for Google Maps. For more information, see the [instructions below](#deploy-app-with-google-maps).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps/blob/master/docs/installation.md" />

## Usage

See full documentation at [react-native-maps/react-native-maps](https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps).

<SnackInline label='MapView' dependencies={['react-native-maps']}>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import MapView from 'react-native-maps';
import { StyleSheet, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <MapView style={styles.map} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
  },
  map: {
    width: '100%',
    height: '100%',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Deploy app with Google Maps

### Android

> If you've already registered a project for another Google service on Android, such as Google Sign In, you enable the **Maps SDK for Android** on your project and jump to step 4.

<Step label="1">
#### Register a Google Cloud API project and enable the Maps SDK for Android

- Open your browser to the [Google API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis) and create a project.
- Once it's created, go to the project and enable the **Maps SDK for Android**.

</Step>

<Step label="2">
#### Copy your app's SHA-1 certificate fingerprint

<Tabs>
<Tab label="For Google Play Store">

- **If you are deploying your app to the Google Play Store**, you'll need to [upload your app binary to Google Play console](/submit/android/) at least once. This is required for Google to generate your app signing credentials.
- Go to the **[Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/console) > (your app) > Release > Setup > App integrity > App Signing**.
- Copy the value of **SHA-1 certificate fingerprint**.

</Tab>

<Tab label="For development builds">

- If you have already created a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/), your project will be signed using a debug keystore.
- After the build is complete, go to your [project's dashboard](https://expo.dev/accounts/[username]/projects/[project-name]), then, under **Configure** > click **Credentials**.
- Under **Application Identifiers**, click your project's package name and under **Android Keystore** copy the value of **SHA-1 Certificate Fingerprint**.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Step>

<Step label="3">
#### Create an API key

- Go to [Google Cloud Credential manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and click **Create Credentials**, then **API Key**.
- In the modal, click **Edit API key**.
- Under **Key restrictions** > **Application restrictions**, choose **Android apps**.
- Under **Restrict usage to your Android apps**, click **Add an item**.
- Add your `android.package` from **app.json** (for example: `com.company.myapp`) to the package name field.
- Then, add the **SHA-1 certificate fingerprint's** value from step 2.
- Click **Done** and then click **Save**.

</Step>

<Step label="4">
#### Add the API key to your project

- Copy your **API Key** into your **app.json** under the `android.config.googleMaps.apiKey` field.
- In your code, import `{ PROVIDER_GOOGLE }` from `react-native-maps` and add the property `provider=PROVIDER_GOOGLE` to your `<MapView>`. This property works on both Android and iOS.
- Rebuild the app binary (or re-submit to the Google Play Store in case your app is already uploaded). An easy way to test if the configuration was successful is to do an [emulator build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/#create-a-development-build-for-emulatorsimulator).

</Step>

### iOS

> If you've already registered a project for another Google service on iOS, such as Google Sign In, you enable the **Maps SDK for iOS** on your project and jump to step 3.

<Step label="1">
#### Register a Google Cloud API project and enable the Maps SDK for iOS

- Open your browser to the [Google API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis) and create a project.
- Then, go to the project, click **Enable APIs and Services** and enable the **Maps SDK for iOS**.

</Step>

<Step label="2">
#### Create an API key

- Go to [Google Cloud Credential manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and click **Create Credentials**, then **API Key**.
- In the modal, click **Edit API key**.
- Under **Key restrictions** > **Application restrictions**, choose **iOS apps**.
- Under **Accept requests from an iOS application with one of these bundle identifiers**, click the **Add an item** button.
- Add your `ios.bundleIdentifier` from **app.json** (for example: `com.company.myapp`) to the bundle ID field.
- Click **Done** and then click **Save**.

</Step>

<Step label="3">
#### Add the API key to your project

- Copy your API key into **app.json** under the `ios.config.googleMapsApiKey` field.
- In your code, import `{ PROVIDER_GOOGLE }` from `react-native-maps` and add the property `provider=PROVIDER_GOOGLE` to your `<MapView>`. This property works on both Android and iOS.
- Rebuild the app binary. An easy way to test if the configuration was successful is to do a [simulator build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/#create-a-development-build-for-emulatorsimulator).

</Step>

## Configuration for web

> **warning** Web support is experimental. We do not recommend using this library on the web yet.

To use this on the web, add the following script to your **web/index.html**. This script may already be present. If this is the case, replace the `API_KEY` with your Google Maps API key, which you can obtain here: [Google Maps: Get API key](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key).

```html web/index.html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <!-- At the end of the <head/> element... -->
    <script
      async
      defer
      src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?key=API_KEY"
      type="text/javascript"></script>

    <!-- Use your web API Key in place of API_KEY: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key -->
  </head>
  <body />
</html>
```

Commit message:

MAdd description for Magnetometer, Mail Composer, Map View, MaskedView, MediaLibrary

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/map-view.mdx, after:

---
title: MapView
description: A library that provides a Map component that uses Google Maps on Android and Apple Maps or Google Maps on iOS.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps'
packageName: 'react-native-maps'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

`react-native-maps` provides a Map component that uses Google Maps on Android and Apple Maps or Google Maps on iOS.

No additional setup is required when testing your project using Expo Go. However, **to deploy the app binary on app stores** additional steps are required for Google Maps. For more information, see the [instructions below](#deploy-app-with-google-maps).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps/blob/master/docs/installation.md" />

## Usage

See full documentation at [react-native-maps/react-native-maps](https://github.com/react-native-maps/react-native-maps).

<SnackInline label='MapView' dependencies={['react-native-maps']}>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import MapView from 'react-native-maps';
import { StyleSheet, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <MapView style={styles.map} />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
  },
  map: {
    width: '100%',
    height: '100%',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Deploy app with Google Maps

### Android

> If you've already registered a project for another Google service on Android, such as Google Sign In, you enable the **Maps SDK for Android** on your project and jump to step 4.

<Step label="1">
#### Register a Google Cloud API project and enable the Maps SDK for Android

- Open your browser to the [Google API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis) and create a project.
- Once it's created, go to the project and enable the **Maps SDK for Android**.

</Step>

<Step label="2">
#### Copy your app's SHA-1 certificate fingerprint

<Tabs>
<Tab label="For Google Play Store">

- **If you are deploying your app to the Google Play Store**, you'll need to [upload your app binary to Google Play console](/submit/android/) at least once. This is required for Google to generate your app signing credentials.
- Go to the **[Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/console) > (your app) > Release > Setup > App integrity > App Signing**.
- Copy the value of **SHA-1 certificate fingerprint**.

</Tab>

<Tab label="For development builds">

- If you have already created a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/), your project will be signed using a debug keystore.
- After the build is complete, go to your [project's dashboard](https://expo.dev/accounts/[username]/projects/[project-name]), then, under **Configure** > click **Credentials**.
- Under **Application Identifiers**, click your project's package name and under **Android Keystore** copy the value of **SHA-1 Certificate Fingerprint**.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Step>

<Step label="3">
#### Create an API key

- Go to [Google Cloud Credential manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and click **Create Credentials**, then **API Key**.
- In the modal, click **Edit API key**.
- Under **Key restrictions** > **Application restrictions**, choose **Android apps**.
- Under **Restrict usage to your Android apps**, click **Add an item**.
- Add your `android.package` from **app.json** (for example: `com.company.myapp`) to the package name field.
- Then, add the **SHA-1 certificate fingerprint's** value from step 2.
- Click **Done** and then click **Save**.

</Step>

<Step label="4">
#### Add the API key to your project

- Copy your **API Key** into your **app.json** under the `android.config.googleMaps.apiKey` field.
- In your code, import `{ PROVIDER_GOOGLE }` from `react-native-maps` and add the property `provider=PROVIDER_GOOGLE` to your `<MapView>`. This property works on both Android and iOS.
- Rebuild the app binary (or re-submit to the Google Play Store in case your app is already uploaded). An easy way to test if the configuration was successful is to do an [emulator build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/#create-a-development-build-for-emulatorsimulator).

</Step>

### iOS

> If you've already registered a project for another Google service on iOS, such as Google Sign In, you enable the **Maps SDK for iOS** on your project and jump to step 3.

<Step label="1">
#### Register a Google Cloud API project and enable the Maps SDK for iOS

- Open your browser to the [Google API Manager](https://console.developers.google.com/apis) and create a project.
- Then, go to the project, click **Enable APIs and Services** and enable the **Maps SDK for iOS**.

</Step>

<Step label="2">
#### Create an API key

- Go to [Google Cloud Credential manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and click **Create Credentials**, then **API Key**.
- In the modal, click **Edit API key**.
- Under **Key restrictions** > **Application restrictions**, choose **iOS apps**.
- Under **Accept requests from an iOS application with one of these bundle identifiers**, click the **Add an item** button.
- Add your `ios.bundleIdentifier` from **app.json** (for example: `com.company.myapp`) to the bundle ID field.
- Click **Done** and then click **Save**.

</Step>

<Step label="3">
#### Add the API key to your project

- Copy your API key into **app.json** under the `ios.config.googleMapsApiKey` field.
- In your code, import `{ PROVIDER_GOOGLE }` from `react-native-maps` and add the property `provider=PROVIDER_GOOGLE` to your `<MapView>`. This property works on both Android and iOS.
- Rebuild the app binary. An easy way to test if the configuration was successful is to do a [simulator build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/#create-a-development-build-for-emulatorsimulator).

</Step>

## Configuration for web

> **warning** Web support is experimental. We do not recommend using this library on the web yet.

To use this on the web, add the following script to your **web/index.html**. This script may already be present. If this is the case, replace the `API_KEY` with your Google Maps API key, which you can obtain here: [Google Maps: Get API key](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key).

```html web/index.html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <!-- At the end of the <head/> element... -->
    <script
      async
      defer
      src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?key=API_KEY"
      type="text/javascript"></script>

    <!-- Use your web API Key in place of API_KEY: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key -->
  </head>
  <body />
</html>
```
