docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/media-library.mdx, before:

---
title: MediaLibrary
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-media-library'
packageName: 'expo-media-library'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-media-library.png'
---

import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`expo-media-library` provides access to the user's media library, allowing them to access their existing images and videos from your app, as well as save new ones. You can also subscribe to any updates made to the user's media library.

> **warning** If your Android app created an album using SDK &lt;= 40 and you want to add more assets to this album, you may need to migrate it to the new scoped directory. Otherwise, your app won't have access to the old album directory and `expo-media-library` won't be able to add new assets to it. However, all other functions will work without problems. You only need to migrate the old album if you want to add something to it. For more information, check out [Android R changes](https://expo.fyi/android-r) and [`MediaLibrary.migrateAlbumIfNeededAsync`](#medialibrarymigratealbumifneededasyncalbum).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-media-library` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-media-library` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-media-library#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-media-library",
        {
          "photosPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your photos.",
          "savePhotosPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to save photos.",
          "isAccessMediaLocationEnabled": true
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'photosPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription` permission message in **Info.plist**.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your photos."',
    },
    {
      name: 'savePhotosPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription` permission message in **Info.plist**.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to save photos."',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAccessMediaLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'Sets whether or not to request the `ACCESS_MEDIA_LOCATION` permission on Android.',
      default: 'false',
    },
  ]}
/>

## API

```js
import * as MediaLibrary from 'expo-media-library';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-media-library" apiName="MediaLibrary" />

## Permissions

### Android

The following permissions are added automatically through this library's `AndroidManifest.xml`.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE']} />

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions
  permissions={['NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription', 'NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription']}
/>

Commit message:

MAdd description for Magnetometer, Mail Composer, Map View, MaskedView, MediaLibrary

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/media-library.mdx, after:

---
title: MediaLibrary
description: A library that provides access to the devices's media library.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-media-library'
packageName: 'expo-media-library'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-media-library.png'
---

import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`expo-media-library` provides access to the user's media library, allowing them to access their existing images and videos from your app, as well as save new ones. You can also subscribe to any updates made to the user's media library.

> **warning** If your Android app created an album using SDK &lt;= 40 and you want to add more assets to this album, you may need to migrate it to the new scoped directory. Otherwise, your app won't have access to the old album directory and `expo-media-library` won't be able to add new assets to it. However, all other functions will work without problems. You only need to migrate the old album if you want to add something to it. For more information, check out [Android R changes](https://expo.fyi/android-r) and [`MediaLibrary.migrateAlbumIfNeededAsync`](#medialibrarymigratealbumifneededasyncalbum).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can configure `expo-media-library` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-media-library` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-media-library#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-media-library",
        {
          "photosPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your photos.",
          "savePhotosPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to save photos.",
          "isAccessMediaLocationEnabled": true
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'photosPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription` permission message in **Info.plist**.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your photos."',
    },
    {
      name: 'savePhotosPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'Sets the iOS `NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription` permission message in **Info.plist**.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to save photos."',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAccessMediaLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'Sets whether or not to request the `ACCESS_MEDIA_LOCATION` permission on Android.',
      default: 'false',
    },
  ]}
/>

## API

```js
import * as MediaLibrary from 'expo-media-library';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-media-library" apiName="MediaLibrary" />

## Permissions

### Android

The following permissions are added automatically through this library's `AndroidManifest.xml`.

<AndroidPermissions permissions={['READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE', 'WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE']} />

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions
  permissions={['NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription', 'NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription']}
/>
