docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/netinfo.mdx, before:

---
title: NetInfo
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo'
packageName: '@react-native-community/netinfo'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`@react-native-community/netinfo` allows you to get information about connection type and connection quality.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo#getting-started" />

## API

To import this library, use:

```js
import NetInfo from '@react-native-community/netinfo';
```

If you want to grab information about the network connection just once, you can use:

```js
NetInfo.fetch().then(state => {
  console.log('Connection type', state.type);
  console.log('Is connected?', state.isConnected);
});
```

Or, if you'd rather subscribe to updates about the network state (which then allows you to run code/perform actions anytime the network state changes) use:

```js
const unsubscribe = NetInfo.addEventListener(state => {
  console.log('Connection type', state.type);
  console.log('Is connected?', state.isConnected);
});

// To unsubscribe to these update, just use:
unsubscribe();
```

## Accessing the SSID

In order to access the `ssid` property (available under `state.details.ssid`), there are few additional configuration steps:

#### Android & iOS

- Request location permissions with [`Location.requestPermissionsAsync()`](location.mdx#locationrequestpermissionsasync)

#### iOS only

- Add the `com.apple.developer.networking.wifi-info` entitlement to your **app.json** under `ios.entitlements`:

```json
  "ios": {
    "entitlements": {
      "com.apple.developer.networking.wifi-info": true
    }
  }
```

- Check the **Access Wi-Fi Information** box in your app's App Identifier, [which can be found here](https://developer.apple.com/account/resources/identifiers/list)
- Rebuild your app with [`eas build --platform ios`](/build/setup/#4-run-a-build) or [`npx expo run:ios`](/more/expo-cli/#compiling)

For more information on API and usage, see [react-native-netinfo documentation](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo#react-native-communitynetinfo).

Commit message:

Add description for NavigationBar, NetInfo, Network, Notifications, Pedometer

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/netinfo.mdx, after:

---
title: NetInfo
description: A cross-platform API that provides access to network information.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo'
packageName: '@react-native-community/netinfo'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`@react-native-community/netinfo` allows you to get information about connection type and connection quality.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo#getting-started" />

## API

To import this library, use:

```js
import NetInfo from '@react-native-community/netinfo';
```

If you want to grab information about the network connection just once, you can use:

```js
NetInfo.fetch().then(state => {
  console.log('Connection type', state.type);
  console.log('Is connected?', state.isConnected);
});
```

Or, if you'd rather subscribe to updates about the network state (which then allows you to run code/perform actions anytime the network state changes) use:

```js
const unsubscribe = NetInfo.addEventListener(state => {
  console.log('Connection type', state.type);
  console.log('Is connected?', state.isConnected);
});

// To unsubscribe to these update, just use:
unsubscribe();
```

## Accessing the SSID

In order to access the `ssid` property (available under `state.details.ssid`), there are few additional configuration steps:

#### Android & iOS

- Request location permissions with [`Location.requestPermissionsAsync()`](location.mdx#locationrequestpermissionsasync)

#### iOS only

- Add the `com.apple.developer.networking.wifi-info` entitlement to your **app.json** under `ios.entitlements`:

```json
  "ios": {
    "entitlements": {
      "com.apple.developer.networking.wifi-info": true
    }
  }
```

- Check the **Access Wi-Fi Information** box in your app's App Identifier, [which can be found here](https://developer.apple.com/account/resources/identifiers/list)
- Rebuild your app with [`eas build --platform ios`](/build/setup/#4-run-a-build) or [`npx expo run:ios`](/more/expo-cli/#compiling)

For more information on API and usage, see [react-native-netinfo documentation](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-netinfo#react-native-communitynetinfo).
