docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/reanimated.mdx, before:

---
title: Reanimated
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated'
packageName: 'react-native-reanimated'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

`react-native-reanimated` provides an API that greatly simplifies the process of creating smooth, powerful, and maintainable animations.

> **Reanimated uses React Native APIs that are incompatible with "Remote JS Debugging" for JavaScriptCore**. In order to use a debugger with your app with `react-native-reanimated`, you'll need to use the [Hermes JavaScript engine](/guides/using-hermes) and the [JavaScript Inspector for Hermes](/guides/using-hermes#javascript-inspector-for-hermes).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/fundamentals/installation" />

After the installation completes, you must also add the Babel plugin to **babel.config.js**:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['babel-preset-expo'],
    plugins: ['react-native-reanimated/plugin'],
  };
};
```

After you add the Babel plugin, restart your development server and clear the bundler cache: `npx expo start --clear`.

> If you load other Babel plugins, the Reanimated plugin has to be the last item in the plugins array.

### Web support

**For web,** you'll have to install the [`@babel/plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from#installation) Babel plugin and update the **babel.config.js** to load it:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```js babel.config.js
plugins: [
  '@babel/plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from',
  'react-native-reanimated/plugin',
],
```

After you add the Babel plugin, restart your development server and clear the bundler cache: `npx expo start --clear`.

## Usage

You should refer to the [react-native-reanimated docs](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/) for more information on the API and its usage. But the following example (courtesy of that repo) is a quick way to get started.

```js
import Animated, {
  useSharedValue,
  withTiming,
  useAnimatedStyle,
  Easing,
} from 'react-native-reanimated';
import { View, Button } from 'react-native';
import React from 'react';

export default function AnimatedStyleUpdateExample(props) {
  const randomWidth = useSharedValue(10);

  const config = {
    duration: 500,
    easing: Easing.bezier(0.5, 0.01, 0, 1),
  };

  const style = useAnimatedStyle(() => {
    return {
      width: withTiming(randomWidth.value, config),
    };
  });

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        flex: 1,
        alignItems: 'center',
        justifyContent: 'center',
        flexDirection: 'column',
      }}>
      <Animated.View
        style={[{ width: 100, height: 80, backgroundColor: 'black', margin: 30 }, style]}
      />
      <Button
        title="toggle"
        onPress={() => {
          randomWidth.value = Math.random() * 350;
        }}
      />
    </View>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Add description for Picker, Print, Random, Reanimated, rootRegisterComponent, SafeAreaContext, Screen Captuer

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/reanimated.mdx, after:

---
title: Reanimated
description: A library that provides an API that greatly simplifies the process of creating smooth, powerful, and maintainable animations.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated'
packageName: 'react-native-reanimated'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

`react-native-reanimated` provides an API that greatly simplifies the process of creating smooth, powerful, and maintainable animations.

> **Reanimated uses React Native APIs that are incompatible with "Remote JS Debugging" for JavaScriptCore**. In order to use a debugger with your app with `react-native-reanimated`, you'll need to use the [Hermes JavaScript engine](/guides/using-hermes) and the [JavaScript Inspector for Hermes](/guides/using-hermes#javascript-inspector-for-hermes).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/fundamentals/installation" />

After the installation completes, you must also add the Babel plugin to **babel.config.js**:

```js babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['babel-preset-expo'],
    plugins: ['react-native-reanimated/plugin'],
  };
};
```

After you add the Babel plugin, restart your development server and clear the bundler cache: `npx expo start --clear`.

> If you load other Babel plugins, the Reanimated plugin has to be the last item in the plugins array.

### Web support

**For web,** you'll have to install the [`@babel/plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from#installation) Babel plugin and update the **babel.config.js** to load it:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```js babel.config.js
plugins: [
  '@babel/plugin-proposal-export-namespace-from',
  'react-native-reanimated/plugin',
],
```

After you add the Babel plugin, restart your development server and clear the bundler cache: `npx expo start --clear`.

## Usage

You should refer to the [react-native-reanimated docs](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/) for more information on the API and its usage. But the following example (courtesy of that repo) is a quick way to get started.

```js
import Animated, {
  useSharedValue,
  withTiming,
  useAnimatedStyle,
  Easing,
} from 'react-native-reanimated';
import { View, Button } from 'react-native';
import React from 'react';

export default function AnimatedStyleUpdateExample(props) {
  const randomWidth = useSharedValue(10);

  const config = {
    duration: 500,
    easing: Easing.bezier(0.5, 0.01, 0, 1),
  };

  const style = useAnimatedStyle(() => {
    return {
      width: withTiming(randomWidth.value, config),
    };
  });

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        flex: 1,
        alignItems: 'center',
        justifyContent: 'center',
        flexDirection: 'column',
      }}>
      <Animated.View
        style={[{ width: 100, height: 80, backgroundColor: 'black', margin: 30 }, style]}
      />
      <Button
        title="toggle"
        onPress={() => {
          randomWidth.value = Math.random() * 350;
        }}
      />
    </View>
  );
}
```
