docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/splash-screen.mdx, before:

---
title: SplashScreen
description: A library that provides access to controlling the visibility behavior of native splash screen.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-splash-screen'
packageName: 'expo-splash-screen'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-splash-screen.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'tvos']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';

The `SplashScreen` module from the `expo-splash-screen` library is used to tell the splash screen to remain visible until it has been explicitly told to hide. This is useful to do tasks that will happen behind the scenes such as making API calls, pre-loading fonts, animating the splash screen and so on.

Also, see the guide on [creating a splash screen image](/develop/user-interface/splash-screen-and-app-icon/#splash-screen), or [quickly generate an icon and splash screen using your browser](https://buildicon.netlify.app/).

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

This example shows how to keep the splash screen visible while loading app resources and then hide the splash screen when the app has rendered some initial content.

```jsx App.js
import { useCallback, useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';
import Entypo from '@expo/vector-icons/Entypo';
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
import * as Font from 'expo-font';

// Keep the splash screen visible while we fetch resources
SplashScreen.preventAutoHideAsync();

// Set the animation options. This is optional.
SplashScreen.setOptions({
  duration: 1000,
  fade: true,
});

export default function App() {
  const [appIsReady, setAppIsReady] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function prepare() {
      try {
        // Pre-load fonts, make any API calls you need to do here
        await Font.loadAsync(Entypo.font);
        // Artificially delay for two seconds to simulate a slow loading
        // experience. Remove this if you copy and paste the code!
        await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000));
      } catch (e) {
        console.warn(e);
      } finally {
        // Tell the application to render
        setAppIsReady(true);
      }
    }

    prepare();
  }, []);

  const onLayoutRootView = useCallback(() => {
    if (appIsReady) {
      // This tells the splash screen to hide immediately! If we call this after
      // `setAppIsReady`, then we may see a blank screen while the app is
      // loading its initial state and rendering its first pixels. So instead,
      // we hide the splash screen once we know the root view has already
      // performed layout.
      SplashScreen.hide();
    }
  }, [appIsReady]);

  if (!appIsReady) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}
      onLayout={onLayoutRootView}>
      <Text>SplashScreen Demo! 👋</Text>
      <Entypo name="rocket" size={30} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Configuration

You can configure `expo-splash-screen` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

**Using the config plugin, as shown below, is the recommended method for configuring the splash screen.** The other methods are now considered legacy and will be removed in the future.

<ConfigPluginExample>
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-splash-screen",
        {
          "backgroundColor": "#232323",
          "image": "./assets/splash-icon.png",
          "dark": {
            "image": "./assets/splash-icon-dark.png",
            "backgroundColor": "#000000"
          },
          "imageWidth": 200
        }
      ]
    ],
  }
}
```
</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'backgroundColor',
      description: 'A hex color string representing the background color of the splash screen.',
      default: '#ffffff',
    },
    {
      name: 'image',
      description:
        'The path to the image file that will be displayed on the splash screen. This should be your app icon or logo.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'enableFullScreenImage_legacy',
      description:
        'Enabling this property allows using a full screen image as the splashscreen. This is to help with the transition from the legacy splash screen configuration and will be removed in the future.',
      platform: 'ios',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'dark',
      description:
        'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen when the device is in dark mode.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'imageWidth',
      description: 'The width to make the image.',
      default: '100',
    },
    {
      name: 'android',
      description: 'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen on Android.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'ios',
      description: 'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen on iOS.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

You can also configure `expo-splash-screen`, using the following [app config](/workflow/configuration/) properties but the config plugin should be preferred.

- [`splash`](../config/app/#splash)
- [`android.splash`](../config/app/#splash-2)
- [`ios.splash`](../config/app/#splash-1)

<ConfigReactNative>

See how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-splash-screen` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-splash-screen#-installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

### Animating the splash screen

`SplashScreen` provides an out-of-the-box fade animation. It can be configured using the `setOptions` method.

```js
SplashScreen.setOptions({
  duration: 1000,
  fade: true,
});
```

If you prefer to use custom animation, see the [`with-splash-screen`](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-splash-screen) example on how to apply any arbitrary animations to your splash screen. You can initialize a new project from this example by running `npx create-react-native-app -t with-splash-screen`.

## API

```js
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-splash-screen" apiName="SplashScreen" />

Commit message:

[docs] Add note about splash screen testing limitations (#34437)
# Why
There's a lot of places we need to update to reflect changes to the
splash screen setup, but wanted to at least get a note up on the
reference page.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

---------

Co-authored-by: Aman Mittal <amandeepmittal@live.com>

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/splash-screen.mdx, after:

---
title: SplashScreen
description: A library that provides access to controlling the visibility behavior of native splash screen.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-splash-screen'
packageName: 'expo-splash-screen'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-splash-screen.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'tvos']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';

The `SplashScreen` module from the `expo-splash-screen` library is used to tell the splash screen to remain visible until it has been explicitly told to hide. This is useful to do tasks that will happen behind the scenes such as making API calls, pre-loading fonts, animating the splash screen and so on.

> From **SDK 52**, due to changes supporting the latest Android splash screen API, Expo Go and development builds cannot fully replicate the splash screen experience your users will see in your [standalone app](/more/glossary-of-terms/#standalone-app). Expo Go will show your app icon instead of the splash screen, and the splash screen on development builds will not reflect all properties set in the config plugin. **It is highly recommended that you test your splash screen on a release build to ensure it looks as expected.**

Also, see the guide on [creating a splash screen image](/develop/user-interface/splash-screen-and-app-icon/#splash-screen), or [quickly generate an icon and splash screen using your browser](https://buildicon.netlify.app/).

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

This example shows how to keep the splash screen visible while loading app resources and then hide the splash screen when the app has rendered some initial content.

```jsx App.js
import { useCallback, useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';
import Entypo from '@expo/vector-icons/Entypo';
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
import * as Font from 'expo-font';

// Keep the splash screen visible while we fetch resources
SplashScreen.preventAutoHideAsync();

// Set the animation options. This is optional.
SplashScreen.setOptions({
  duration: 1000,
  fade: true,
});

export default function App() {
  const [appIsReady, setAppIsReady] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function prepare() {
      try {
        // Pre-load fonts, make any API calls you need to do here
        await Font.loadAsync(Entypo.font);
        // Artificially delay for two seconds to simulate a slow loading
        // experience. Remove this if you copy and paste the code!
        await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000));
      } catch (e) {
        console.warn(e);
      } finally {
        // Tell the application to render
        setAppIsReady(true);
      }
    }

    prepare();
  }, []);

  const onLayoutRootView = useCallback(() => {
    if (appIsReady) {
      // This tells the splash screen to hide immediately! If we call this after
      // `setAppIsReady`, then we may see a blank screen while the app is
      // loading its initial state and rendering its first pixels. So instead,
      // we hide the splash screen once we know the root view has already
      // performed layout.
      SplashScreen.hide();
    }
  }, [appIsReady]);

  if (!appIsReady) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}
      onLayout={onLayoutRootView}>
      <Text>SplashScreen Demo! 👋</Text>
      <Entypo name="rocket" size={30} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

## Configuration

You can configure `expo-splash-screen` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

**Using the config plugin, as shown below, is the recommended method for configuring the splash screen.** The other methods are now considered legacy and will be removed in the future.

<ConfigPluginExample>
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-splash-screen",
        {
          "backgroundColor": "#232323",
          "image": "./assets/splash-icon.png",
          "dark": {
            "image": "./assets/splash-icon-dark.png",
            "backgroundColor": "#000000"
          },
          "imageWidth": 200
        }
      ]
    ],
  }
}
```
</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'backgroundColor',
      description: 'A hex color string representing the background color of the splash screen.',
      default: '#ffffff',
    },
    {
      name: 'image',
      description:
        'The path to the image file that will be displayed on the splash screen. This should be your app icon or logo.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'enableFullScreenImage_legacy',
      description:
        'Enabling this property allows using a full screen image as the splashscreen. This is to help with the transition from the legacy splash screen configuration and will be removed in the future.',
      platform: 'ios',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'dark',
      description:
        'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen when the device is in dark mode.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'imageWidth',
      description: 'The width to make the image.',
      default: '100',
    },
    {
      name: 'android',
      description: 'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen on Android.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'ios',
      description: 'An object containing properties for configuring the splash screen on iOS.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

You can also configure `expo-splash-screen`, using the following [app config](/workflow/configuration/) properties but the config plugin should be preferred.

- [`splash`](../config/app/#splash)
- [`android.splash`](../config/app/#splash-2)
- [`ios.splash`](../config/app/#splash-1)

<ConfigReactNative>

See how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-splash-screen` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-splash-screen#-installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

### Animating the splash screen

`SplashScreen` provides an out-of-the-box fade animation. It can be configured using the `setOptions` method.

```js
SplashScreen.setOptions({
  duration: 1000,
  fade: true,
});
```

If you prefer to use custom animation, see the [`with-splash-screen`](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-splash-screen) example on how to apply any arbitrary animations to your splash screen. You can initialize a new project from this example by running `npx create-react-native-app -t with-splash-screen`.

## API

```js
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-splash-screen" apiName="SplashScreen" />
