docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/video.mdx, before:

---
title: Video (expo-video)
description: A library that provides an API to implement video playback in apps.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-video'
packageName: 'expo-video'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-video.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web', 'tvos']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample, ConfigPluginProperties } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-video` is a cross-platform, performant video component for React Native and Expo with Web support.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-video` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-video",
        {
          "supportsBackgroundPlayback": true,
          "supportsPictureInPicture": true
        }
      ]
    ],
  }
}
```
</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'supportsBackgroundPlayback',
      description:
        'A boolean value to enable background playback on iOS. If `true`, the `audio` key is added to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the **Info.plist** file. If `false`, the key is removed. When `undefined`, the key is not modified.',
      platform: 'ios',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'supportsPictureInPicture',
      description:
        'A boolean value to enable Picture-in-Picture on Android and iOS. If `true`, enables the `android:supportsPictureInPicture` property on Android and adds the `audio` key to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the **Info.plist** file on iOS. If `false`, the key is removed. When `undefined`, the configuration is not modified.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Usage

Here's a simple example of a video with a play and pause button.

<SnackInline label='Video' dependencies={['expo-video']}>

```jsx
import { useEvent } from 'expo';
import { useVideoPlayer, VideoView } from 'expo-video';
import { StyleSheet, View, Button } from 'react-native';

const videoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4';

export default function VideoScreen() {
  const player = useVideoPlayer(videoSource, player => {
    player.loop = true;
    player.play();
  });

  const { isPlaying } = useEvent(player, 'playingChange', { isPlaying: player.playing });

  return (
    <View style={styles.contentContainer}>
      <VideoView style={styles.video} player={player} allowsFullscreen allowsPictureInPicture />
      <View style={styles.controlsContainer}>
        <Button
          title={isPlaying ? 'Pause' : 'Play'}
          onPress={() => {
            if (isPlaying) {
              player.pause();
            } else {
              player.play();
            }
          }}
        />
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  contentContainer: {
    flex: 1,
    padding: 10,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 50,
  },
  video: {
    width: 350,
    height: 275,
  },
  controlsContainer: {
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Receiving events

The changes in properties of the [`VideoPlayer`](#videoplayer) do not update the React state. Therefore, to display the information about the current state of the `VideoPlayer`, it is necessary to listen to the [events](#videoplayerevents) it emits.
The event system is based on the [`EventEmitter`](../sdk/expo/#eventemitter) class and [hooks](../sdk/expo/#hooks) from the [`expo`](../sdk/expo) package. There are a few ways to listen to events:

#### `useEvent` hook

Creates a listener that will return a stateful value that can be used in a component. It also cleans up automatically when the component unmounts.

```tsx useEvent
import { useEvent } from 'expo';
// ... Other imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

const { status, error } = useEvent(player, 'statusChange', { status: player.status });
// Rest of the component...
```

#### `useEventListener` hook

Built around the `Player.addListener` and `Player.removeListener` methods, creates an event listener with automatic cleanup.

```tsx useEventListener
import { useEventListener } from 'expo';
// ...Other imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

useEventListener(player, 'statusChange', ({ status, error }) => {
  setPlayerStatus(status);
  setPlayerError(error);
  console.log('Player status changed: ', status);
});
// Rest of the component...
```

#### `Player.addListener` method

Most flexible way to listen to events, but requires manual cleanup and more boilerplate code.

```tsx Player.addListener
// ...Imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

useEffect(() => {
  const subscription = player.addListener('statusChange', ({ status, error }) => {
    setPlayerStatus(status);
    setPlayerError(error);
    console.log('Player status changed: ', status);
  });

  return () => {
    subscription.remove();
  };
}, []);
// Rest of the component...
```

### Playing local media from the assets directory

`expo-video` supports playing local media loaded using the `require` function. You can use the result as a source directly, or assign it to the `assetId` parameter of a [`VideoSource`](#videosource) if you also want to configure other properties.

```tsx Playing local media
import { VideoSource } from 'expo-video';

const assetId = require('./assets/bigbuckbunny.mp4');

const videoSource: VideoSource = {
  assetId,
  metadata: {
    title: 'Big Buck Bunny',
    artist: 'The Open Movie Project',
  },
};

const player1 = useVideoPlayer(assetId); // You can use the `asset` directly as a video source
const player2 = useVideoPlayer(videoSource);
```

### Preloading videos

While another video is playing, a video can be loaded before showing it in the view. This allows for quicker transitions between subsequent videos and a better user experience.

To preload a video, you have to create a `VideoPlayer` with a video source. Even when the player is not connected to a `VideoView`, it will fill the buffers. Once it is connected to the `VideoView`, it will be able to start playing without buffering.

In some cases, it is beneficial to preload a video later in the screen lifecycle. In that case, a `VideoPlayer` with a `null` source should be created. To start preloading, replace the player source with a video source using the `replace()` function.

Here is an example of how to preload a video:

<SnackInline label='Preloading videos' dependencies={['expo-video']}>

```tsx
import { useVideoPlayer, VideoView, VideoSource } from 'expo-video';
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View } from 'react-native';

const bigBuckBunnySource: VideoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4';

const elephantsDreamSource: VideoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/ElephantsDream.mp4';

export default function PreloadingVideoPlayerScreen() {
  const player1 = useVideoPlayer(bigBuckBunnySource, player => {
    player.play();
  });

  const player2 = useVideoPlayer(elephantsDreamSource, player => {
    player.currentTime = 20;
  });

  const [currentPlayer, setCurrentPlayer] = useState(player1);

  const replacePlayer = useCallback(async () => {
    currentPlayer.pause();
    if (currentPlayer === player1) {
      setCurrentPlayer(player2);
      player1.pause();
      player2.play();
    } else {
      setCurrentPlayer(player1);
      player2.pause();
      player1.play();
    }
  }, [player1, currentPlayer]);

  return (
    <View style={styles.contentContainer}>
      <VideoView player={currentPlayer} style={styles.video} nativeControls={false} />
      <TouchableOpacity style={styles.button} onPress={replacePlayer}>
        <Text style={styles.buttonText}>Replace Player</Text>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  contentContainer: {
    flex: 1,
    padding: 10,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 50,
  },
  button: {
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    borderRadius: 3,
    paddingVertical: 8,
    paddingHorizontal: 12,
    backgroundColor: '#4630ec',
  },
  buttonText: {
    fontSize: 12,
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    color: '#eeeeee',
    textAlign: 'center',
  },
  video: {
    width: 300,
    height: 168.75,
    marginVertical: 20,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Using the VideoPlayer directly

In most cases, the [`useVideoPlayer`](#usevideoplayersource-setup) hook should be used to create a `VideoPlayer` instance. It manages the player's lifecycle and ensures that it is properly disposed of when the component is unmounted. However, in some advanced use cases, it might be necessary to create a `VideoPlayer` that does not get automatically destroyed when the component is unmounted.
In those cases, the `VideoPlayer` can be created using the [`createVideoPlayer`](#videocreatevideoplayersource) function. You need be aware of the risks that come with this approach, as it is your responsibility to call the [`release()`](../sdk/expo/#release) method when the player is no longer needed. If not handled properly, this approach may lead to memory leaks.

```tsx Creating player instance
import { createVideoPlayer } from 'expo-video';
const player = createVideoPlayer(videoSource);
```

## API

```js
import { VideoView, useVideoPlayer } from 'expo-video';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-video" apiName="Video" />

Commit message:

[video][android][ios] Add video caching (#31781)
# Why

Adds video caching for regular video files for Android and iOS. On
Android HLS videos also work.

# How

On Android used `SimpleCache` to implement the cache. On iOS used a
`AVAssetResourceLoaderDelegate` to capture the requests, fulfill them
and cache the responses.

The iOS structure
- `ResourceLoaderDelegate` - implements AVAssetResourceLoaderDelegate,
URLSessionDelegate - recieves requests from the AVPlayer and fulfills
them using an URL session. When receiving a request checks if the data
is available in the CachedResource and fully/partially fulfills it from
the cache.
- `CachedResource` - Meant to represent a whole of a cached video
(metadata + video data).
- `CachableRequest `- Holds a loadingRequest and associated variables
for each loadingRequest received from the AVPlayer. Holds the data
received from the server until the loadingRequest is fulfilled.
- `MediaInfo` - Holds information necessary to play the video from a
file, including the mimeType, headers received from the server response
and loadedDataRanges - ranges of data that are already available in the
file.

# Test Plan

Tested in BareExpo on Android and iOS

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/video.mdx, after:

---
title: Video (expo-video)
description: A library that provides an API to implement video playback in apps.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-video'
packageName: 'expo-video'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-video.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web', 'tvos']
isNew: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample, ConfigPluginProperties } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-video` is a cross-platform, performant video component for React Native and Expo with Web support.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-video` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect. If your app does **not** use EAS Build, then you'll need to manually configure the package.

<ConfigPluginExample>
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-video",
        {
          "supportsBackgroundPlayback": true,
          "supportsPictureInPicture": true
        }
      ]
    ],
  }
}
```
</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'supportsBackgroundPlayback',
      description:
        'A boolean value to enable background playback on iOS. If `true`, the `audio` key is added to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the **Info.plist** file. If `false`, the key is removed. When `undefined`, the key is not modified.',
      platform: 'ios',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
    {
      name: 'supportsPictureInPicture',
      description:
        'A boolean value to enable Picture-in-Picture on Android and iOS. If `true`, enables the `android:supportsPictureInPicture` property on Android and adds the `audio` key to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the **Info.plist** file on iOS. If `false`, the key is removed. When `undefined`, the configuration is not modified.',
      default: 'undefined',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Usage

Here's a simple example of a video with a play and pause button.

<SnackInline label='Video' dependencies={['expo-video']}>

```jsx
import { useEvent } from 'expo';
import { useVideoPlayer, VideoView } from 'expo-video';
import { StyleSheet, View, Button } from 'react-native';

const videoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4';

export default function VideoScreen() {
  const player = useVideoPlayer(videoSource, player => {
    player.loop = true;
    player.play();
  });

  const { isPlaying } = useEvent(player, 'playingChange', { isPlaying: player.playing });

  return (
    <View style={styles.contentContainer}>
      <VideoView style={styles.video} player={player} allowsFullscreen allowsPictureInPicture />
      <View style={styles.controlsContainer}>
        <Button
          title={isPlaying ? 'Pause' : 'Play'}
          onPress={() => {
            if (isPlaying) {
              player.pause();
            } else {
              player.play();
            }
          }}
        />
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  contentContainer: {
    flex: 1,
    padding: 10,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 50,
  },
  video: {
    width: 350,
    height: 275,
  },
  controlsContainer: {
    padding: 10,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Receiving events

The changes in properties of the [`VideoPlayer`](#videoplayer) do not update the React state. Therefore, to display the information about the current state of the `VideoPlayer`, it is necessary to listen to the [events](#videoplayerevents) it emits.
The event system is based on the [`EventEmitter`](../sdk/expo/#eventemitter) class and [hooks](../sdk/expo/#hooks) from the [`expo`](../sdk/expo) package. There are a few ways to listen to events:

#### `useEvent` hook

Creates a listener that will return a stateful value that can be used in a component. It also cleans up automatically when the component unmounts.

```tsx useEvent
import { useEvent } from 'expo';
// ... Other imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

const { status, error } = useEvent(player, 'statusChange', { status: player.status });
// Rest of the component...
```

#### `useEventListener` hook

Built around the `Player.addListener` and `Player.removeListener` methods, creates an event listener with automatic cleanup.

```tsx useEventListener
import { useEventListener } from 'expo';
// ...Other imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

useEventListener(player, 'statusChange', ({ status, error }) => {
  setPlayerStatus(status);
  setPlayerError(error);
  console.log('Player status changed: ', status);
});
// Rest of the component...
```

#### `Player.addListener` method

Most flexible way to listen to events, but requires manual cleanup and more boilerplate code.

```tsx Player.addListener
// ...Imports, definition of the component, creating the player etc.

useEffect(() => {
  const subscription = player.addListener('statusChange', ({ status, error }) => {
    setPlayerStatus(status);
    setPlayerError(error);
    console.log('Player status changed: ', status);
  });

  return () => {
    subscription.remove();
  };
}, []);
// Rest of the component...
```

### Playing local media from the assets directory

`expo-video` supports playing local media loaded using the `require` function. You can use the result as a source directly, or assign it to the `assetId` parameter of a [`VideoSource`](#videosource) if you also want to configure other properties.

```tsx Playing local media
import { VideoSource } from 'expo-video';

const assetId = require('./assets/bigbuckbunny.mp4');

const videoSource: VideoSource = {
  assetId,
  metadata: {
    title: 'Big Buck Bunny',
    artist: 'The Open Movie Project',
  },
};

const player1 = useVideoPlayer(assetId); // You can use the `asset` directly as a video source
const player2 = useVideoPlayer(videoSource);
```

### Preloading videos

While another video is playing, a video can be loaded before showing it in the view. This allows for quicker transitions between subsequent videos and a better user experience.

To preload a video, you have to create a `VideoPlayer` with a video source. Even when the player is not connected to a `VideoView`, it will fill the buffers. Once it is connected to the `VideoView`, it will be able to start playing without buffering.

In some cases, it is beneficial to preload a video later in the screen lifecycle. In that case, a `VideoPlayer` with a `null` source should be created. To start preloading, replace the player source with a video source using the `replace()` function.

Here is an example of how to preload a video:

<SnackInline label='Preloading videos' dependencies={['expo-video']}>

```tsx
import { useVideoPlayer, VideoView, VideoSource } from 'expo-video';
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, TouchableOpacity, View } from 'react-native';

const bigBuckBunnySource: VideoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4';

const elephantsDreamSource: VideoSource =
  'https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/ElephantsDream.mp4';

export default function PreloadingVideoPlayerScreen() {
  const player1 = useVideoPlayer(bigBuckBunnySource, player => {
    player.play();
  });

  const player2 = useVideoPlayer(elephantsDreamSource, player => {
    player.currentTime = 20;
  });

  const [currentPlayer, setCurrentPlayer] = useState(player1);

  const replacePlayer = useCallback(async () => {
    currentPlayer.pause();
    if (currentPlayer === player1) {
      setCurrentPlayer(player2);
      player1.pause();
      player2.play();
    } else {
      setCurrentPlayer(player1);
      player2.pause();
      player1.play();
    }
  }, [player1, currentPlayer]);

  return (
    <View style={styles.contentContainer}>
      <VideoView player={currentPlayer} style={styles.video} nativeControls={false} />
      <TouchableOpacity style={styles.button} onPress={replacePlayer}>
        <Text style={styles.buttonText}>Replace Player</Text>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  contentContainer: {
    flex: 1,
    padding: 10,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingHorizontal: 50,
  },
  button: {
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    borderRadius: 3,
    paddingVertical: 8,
    paddingHorizontal: 12,
    backgroundColor: '#4630ec',
  },
  buttonText: {
    fontSize: 12,
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    color: '#eeeeee',
    textAlign: 'center',
  },
  video: {
    width: 300,
    height: 168.75,
    marginVertical: 20,
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

### Using the VideoPlayer directly

In most cases, the [`useVideoPlayer`](#usevideoplayersource-setup) hook should be used to create a `VideoPlayer` instance. It manages the player's lifecycle and ensures that it is properly disposed of when the component is unmounted. However, in some advanced use cases, it might be necessary to create a `VideoPlayer` that does not get automatically destroyed when the component is unmounted.
In those cases, the `VideoPlayer` can be created using the [`createVideoPlayer`](#videocreatevideoplayersource) function. You need be aware of the risks that come with this approach, as it is your responsibility to call the [`release()`](../sdk/expo/#release) method when the player is no longer needed. If not handled properly, this approach may lead to memory leaks.

```tsx Creating player instance
import { createVideoPlayer } from 'expo-video';
const player = createVideoPlayer(videoSource);
```

### Caching videos

If your app frequently replays the same video, caching can be utilized to minimize network usage and enhance user experience, albeit at the cost of increased device storage usage. `expo-video` supports video caching on `Android` and `iOS` platforms. This feature can be activated by setting the [`useCaching`](#videosource) property of a [`VideoSource`](#videosource) object to `true`.

The cache is persistent and will be cleared on a least-recently-used basis once the preferred size is exceeded. Furthermore, the system can clear the cache due to low storage availability, so it's not advisable to depend on the cache to store critical data.

The cache functions offline. If a portion or the entirety of a video is cached, it can be played from the cache even when the device is offline until the cached data is exhausted.

> Due to platform limitations, the cache cannot be used with HLS video sources on iOS. Caching DRM-protected videos is not supported on Android and iOS.

### Managing the cache

- The preferred cache size in bytes can be defined using the [`setVideoCacheSizeAsync`](#videosetvideocachesizeasyncsizebytes) function. The default cache size is 1GB.
- The [`getCurrentVideoCacheSize`](#videogetcurrentvideocachesize) can be used to get the current storage occupied by the cache in bytes.
- All cached videos can be cleared using the [`clearVideoCacheAsync`](#videoclearvideocacheasync) function.

## API

```js
import { VideoView, useVideoPlayer } from 'expo-video';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-video" apiName="Video" />
