docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/view-pager.mdx, before:

---
title: ViewPager
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view'
packageName: 'react-native-pager-view'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

**`react-native-pager-view`** exposes a component that provides the layout and gestures to scroll between pages of content, like a carousel.

<Video file={'sdk/viewpager.mp4'} loop={false} />

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view#linking" />

## Usage

See full documentation at [callstack/react-native-pager-view](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view).

## Basic Example

```js
import React from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, View, Text } from 'react-native';
import PagerView from 'react-native-pager-view';

const MyPager = () => {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <PagerView style={styles.viewPager} initialPage={0}>
        <View style={styles.page} key="1">
          <Text>First page</Text>
          <Text>Swipe ➡️</Text>
        </View>
        <View style={styles.page} key="2">
          <Text>Second page</Text>
        </View>
        <View style={styles.page} key="3">
          <Text>Third page</Text>
        </View>
      </PagerView>
    </View>
  );
};

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  viewPager: {
    flex: 1,
  },
  page: {
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
  },
});

export default MyPager;
```

Commit message:

Add description for Tracking Transparency, Updates, Video Thumbnails, Video, View Pager, WebBrowser, WebView

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/view-pager.mdx, after:

---
title: ViewPager
description: A component library that provides a carousel-like view to swipe through pages of content.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view'
packageName: 'react-native-pager-view'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

**`react-native-pager-view`** exposes a component that provides the layout and gestures to scroll between pages of content, like a carousel.

<Video file={'sdk/viewpager.mp4'} loop={false} />

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view#linking" />

## Usage

See full documentation at [callstack/react-native-pager-view](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-pager-view).

## Basic Example

```js
import React from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, View, Text } from 'react-native';
import PagerView from 'react-native-pager-view';

const MyPager = () => {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <PagerView style={styles.viewPager} initialPage={0}>
        <View style={styles.page} key="1">
          <Text>First page</Text>
          <Text>Swipe ➡️</Text>
        </View>
        <View style={styles.page} key="2">
          <Text>Second page</Text>
        </View>
        <View style={styles.page} key="3">
          <Text>Third page</Text>
        </View>
      </PagerView>
    </View>
  );
};

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  viewPager: {
    flex: 1,
  },
  page: {
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
  },
});

export default MyPager;
```
