docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/webbrowser.mdx, before:

---
title: WebBrowser
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-web-browser'
packageName: 'expo-web-browser'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-web-browser.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-web-browser` provides access to the system's web browser and supports handling redirects. On Android, it uses `ChromeCustomTabs` and on iOS, it uses `SFSafariViewController` or `SFAuthenticationSession`, depending on the method you call. As of iOS 11, `SFSafariViewController` no longer shares cookies with Safari, so if you are using `WebBrowser` for authentication you will want to use `WebBrowser.openAuthSessionAsync`, and if you just want to open a webpage (such as your app privacy policy), then use `WebBrowser.openBrowserAsync`.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label="Basic WebBrowser usage" dependencies={["expo-web-browser", "expo-constants"]}>

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { Button, Text, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import * as WebBrowser from 'expo-web-browser';
/* @hide */
import Constants from 'expo-constants';
/* @end */

export default function App() {
  const [result, setResult] = useState(null);

  const _handlePressButtonAsync = async () => {
    let result = await WebBrowser.openBrowserAsync('https://expo.dev');
    setResult(result);
  };
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Open WebBrowser" onPress={_handlePressButtonAsync} />
      <Text>{result && JSON.stringify(result)}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingTop: Constants.statusBarHeight,
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

### Handling deep links from the WebBrowser

If you use the `WebBrowser` window for authentication or another use case where you want to pass information back into your app through a deep link, add a handler with `Linking.addEventListener` before opening the browser. When the listener fires, you should call [dismissBrowser](#webbrowserdismissbrowser) -- it will not automatically dismiss when a deep link is handled. Aside from that, redirects from `WebBrowser` work the same as other deep links. [Read more about it in the Linking guide](/guides/linking#handling-links).

## API

```js
import * as WebBrowser from 'expo-web-browser';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-web-browser" apiName="WebBrowser" />

## Error Codes

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_REDIRECT`

**Web only:** The window cannot complete the redirect request because the invoking window doesn't have a reference to it's parent. This can happen if the parent window was reloaded.

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_BLOCKED`

**Web only:** The popup window was blocked by the browser or failed to open. This can happen in mobile browsers when the `window.open()` method was invoked too long after a user input was fired.

Mobile browsers do this to prevent malicious websites from opening many unwanted popups on mobile.

You're method can still run in an async function but there cannot be any long running tasks before it. You can use hooks to disable user-inputs until any other processes have finished loading.

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_CRYPTO`

**Web only:** The current environment doesn't support crypto. Ensure you are running from a secure origin (https).

> **Tip:** You can run `npx expo start --web --https` to open your web page in a secure development environment.

Commit message:

Add description for Tracking Transparency, Updates, Video Thumbnails, Video, View Pager, WebBrowser, WebView

docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/webbrowser.mdx, after:

---
title: WebBrowser
description: A library that provides access to the system's web browser and supports handling redirects.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-web-browser'
packageName: 'expo-web-browser'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-web-browser.png'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

`expo-web-browser` provides access to the system's web browser and supports handling redirects. On Android, it uses `ChromeCustomTabs` and on iOS, it uses `SFSafariViewController` or `SFAuthenticationSession`, depending on the method you call. As of iOS 11, `SFSafariViewController` no longer shares cookies with Safari, so if you are using `WebBrowser` for authentication you will want to use `WebBrowser.openAuthSessionAsync`, and if you just want to open a webpage (such as your app privacy policy), then use `WebBrowser.openBrowserAsync`.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

<SnackInline label="Basic WebBrowser usage" dependencies={["expo-web-browser", "expo-constants"]}>

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { Button, Text, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import * as WebBrowser from 'expo-web-browser';
/* @hide */
import Constants from 'expo-constants';
/* @end */

export default function App() {
  const [result, setResult] = useState(null);

  const _handlePressButtonAsync = async () => {
    let result = await WebBrowser.openBrowserAsync('https://expo.dev');
    setResult(result);
  };
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button title="Open WebBrowser" onPress={_handlePressButtonAsync} />
      <Text>{result && JSON.stringify(result)}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    paddingTop: Constants.statusBarHeight,
    backgroundColor: '#ecf0f1',
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

### Handling deep links from the WebBrowser

If you use the `WebBrowser` window for authentication or another use case where you want to pass information back into your app through a deep link, add a handler with `Linking.addEventListener` before opening the browser. When the listener fires, you should call [dismissBrowser](#webbrowserdismissbrowser) -- it will not automatically dismiss when a deep link is handled. Aside from that, redirects from `WebBrowser` work the same as other deep links. [Read more about it in the Linking guide](/guides/linking#handling-links).

## API

```js
import * as WebBrowser from 'expo-web-browser';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-web-browser" apiName="WebBrowser" />

## Error Codes

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_REDIRECT`

**Web only:** The window cannot complete the redirect request because the invoking window doesn't have a reference to it's parent. This can happen if the parent window was reloaded.

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_BLOCKED`

**Web only:** The popup window was blocked by the browser or failed to open. This can happen in mobile browsers when the `window.open()` method was invoked too long after a user input was fired.

Mobile browsers do this to prevent malicious websites from opening many unwanted popups on mobile.

You're method can still run in an async function but there cannot be any long running tasks before it. You can use hooks to disable user-inputs until any other processes have finished loading.

### `ERR_WEB_BROWSER_CRYPTO`

**Web only:** The current environment doesn't support crypto. Ensure you are running from a secure origin (https).

> **Tip:** You can run `npx expo start --web --https` to open your web page in a secure development environment.
