docs/pages/billing/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: Plans, Billing, and Payment FAQs
sidebar_title: FAQ
description: A reference of commonly asked questions on Expo Application Services (EAS) plans, billing, and payment.
---

This page covers frequently asked questions about plans, billing, and payment for [Expo Application Services (EAS)](/eas/).

## Plans

### How can I update my plan?

To update your Organization account's plan, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role privilege](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. See [Change the role of a member](/accounts/account-types/#change-the-role-of-a-member) for more information.

After confirming your role, see [Upgrade to a new plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan) to upgrade or [Downgrade a plan](/billing/manage/#downgrade-a-plan) to downgrade an existing plan.

### How can I cancel a plan?

See [Cancel a plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan) for more information.

### What if I subscribe from the wrong account?

If you've subscribed to a plan from the wrong account:

- From the Expo dashboard's navigation menu, under **Account**, switch to the account from which you intend to subscribe.
- Go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) and under **Plan**, [follow the steps to subscribe to the right plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan).
- From the wrong account, go to **[Receipts](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/receipts)** and initiate a [request for a refund](/billing/invoices-and-receipts/#request-a-refund).

### I am on a Free plan and only need a few extra builds or updates

If you are on a Free plan and have completed your monthly quota of free builds and updates, upgrade to the [On-demand plan](/billing/plans/). It offers a pay-as-you-go option for EAS Build and the same limits as the Free plan for EAS Update. Once your requirements are fulfilled, you can [downgrade to the Free plan from the On-demand plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan).

To upgrade from the Free plan to the On-demand plan, see [Upgrade to a new plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan).

To downgrade from an On-demand to a Free plan, see [Cancel a plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan).

## Billing

### When does a billing period start for a plan?

For the Free plan, the billing period starts on the first day of the calendar month.

For [all paid plans](/billing/plans/#plans), the billing period starts from the subscription date of that plan.

### How do I update my billing information or add a tax ID?

To update your Organization account's billing information or add a tax ID, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. After confirming your role:

- Go to your [account's Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing), and click on **Update billing information**. This will take you to Stripe's portal.
- On Stripe's portal, under **Billing information**, click on **Update information** to update billing-related information such as billing name, email, address, and tax ID.

See [Manage billing information](/billing/manage/#manage-billing-information) for more details.

### Can I update the billing information on my last invoice?

No. Updating billing information will only be reflected on the next invoice.

### Can you email me the receipts?

No. Your account's Owner or Admin can download them. See [Download an invoice](/billing/invoices-and-receipts/#download-and-view-an-invoice) for more information.

### How can I reduce the amount of EAS Build usage by using EAS Update?

Use [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) and [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to test and deploy new code without creating a new build. This option is better for most apps since JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code. You can create multiple test channels with EAS Update and reduce the need to create additional builds for your team. Soon, by using [Expo Fingerprint](https://expo.dev/blog/fingerprint-your-native-runtime), you will be able to build or update selectively, depending on whether you already have a compatible native runtime.

For more information, see [How to optimize build usage](/billing/usage-based-pricing/#how-to-optimize-build-usage).

### How do I estimate my next bill?

To estimate your next bill, go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing). Under **Usage this month**, you will find a summary of your EAS Build usage based on the [resource class](/build/eas-json/#selecting-resource-class), EAS Update usage based on monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth, and the amount spent for both.

See [How usage-based pricing works](/billing/usage-based-pricing/#how-usage-based-pricing-works) for more information.

### What is a monthly updated user?

A monthly updated user is a unique user who downloads an update via EAS Update in a single month, regardless of how many updates this user downloads in a given billing month/period. See [How are "monthly updated users" counted for a billing period](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle) for more information.

## Payments

### Can I pay annually?

Annual plans are available for [Enterprise plan](/billing/plans/#enterprise) customers. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) for more information.

### How can I update our payment information?

To update your Organization account's payment information, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. After confirming your role:

- Go to your [account's **Billing**](https://expo.dev/settings/billing), and click on **Update billing information**. This will take you to Stripe's portal.
- On Stripe's portal, under **Payment method**, click on **Add payment method** to add a new payment method.

See [Manage billing information](/billing/manage/#payment-method) for more details.

### Can I pay with an Automated Clearing House (ACH), or bank/wire transfer?

[Enterprise plan](/billing/plans/#enterprise) customers on annual plans can pay by ACH as an alternative to credit card payments. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) for more information.

### I need a W-9, or other legal documentation

To request a W-9, [contact us](https://expo.dev/contact).

Find our legal terms at [expo.dev/terms](https://expo.dev/terms).

### Does Expo store my card information?

No, Expo does not. We use Stripe to handle the payment system and they do. See [how Stripe handles security](https://docs.stripe.com/security) for more information.

### How much did I pay for a large build this month?

To view the cost of a large build, go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing). Under **Usage this month** you will find a summary of your EAS Build usage based on the [resource class](/build/eas-json/#selecting-resource-class) and the amount spent.

## Add-ons

### How do I increase build concurrencies on my account?

If you're already subscribed to a paid EAS plan, you can buy additional concurrencies in the [**Add-ons** section](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) under **Billing**.

If you're on the Free plan, you'll need to set up a paid subscription. [Click here](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/billing/cart) to choose a new plan. Then, select the number of additional concurrencies to add to your subscription on the checkout page.

Each plan has different number of concurrencies included. If you need more than 5 additional concurrencies, [contact us](https://expo.dev/contact).

Commit message:

[doctor] Fix metro config false positive (#34934)
# Why
Fixes https://github.com/expo/expo/issues/34901

# How
The previous metro config check looked for the hash asset files plugin,
but that was removed here: https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/34208, so
this check was changed to look for the `_expoRelativeProjectRoot`
property on the Metro config.

At least on my test project (and probably others), the
`_expoRelativeProjectRoot` property on the Metro config was an empty
string, which caused it to evaluate as false, tripping the warning.
However, I think (@EvanBacon could confirm) we're just trying to check
if the property exists at all, so we have a good indication that the
user built off of the Expo Metro config, so I think the check needs to
be changed to check for the property's existence.

# Test Plan
Tried with a standard Expo metro config -> no warning
Tried with a metro config that doesn't inheriet from Expo -> warning

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/billing/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: Plans, Billing, and Payment FAQs
sidebar_title: FAQ
description: A reference of commonly asked questions on Expo Application Services (EAS) plans, billing, and payment.
---

This page covers frequently asked questions about plans, billing, and payment for [Expo Application Services (EAS)](/eas/).

## Plans

### How can I update my plan?

To update your Organization account's plan, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role privilege](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. See [Change the role of a member](/accounts/account-types/#change-the-role-of-a-member) for more information.

After confirming your role, see [Upgrade to a new plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan) to upgrade or [Downgrade a plan](/billing/manage/#downgrade-a-plan) to downgrade an existing plan.

### How can I cancel a plan?

See [Cancel a plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan) for more information.

### What if I subscribe from the wrong account?

If you've subscribed to a plan from the wrong account:

- From the Expo dashboard's navigation menu, under **Account**, switch to the account from which you intend to subscribe.
- Go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) and under **Plan**, [follow the steps to subscribe to the right plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan).
- From the wrong account, go to **[Receipts](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/receipts)** and initiate a [request for a refund](/billing/invoices-and-receipts/#request-a-refund).

### I am on a Free plan and only need a few extra builds or updates

If you are on a Free plan and have completed your monthly quota of free builds and updates, upgrade to the [On-demand plan](/billing/plans/). It offers a pay-as-you-go option for EAS Build and the same limits as the Free plan for EAS Update. Once your requirements are fulfilled, you can [downgrade to the Free plan from the On-demand plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan).

To upgrade from the Free plan to the On-demand plan, see [Upgrade to a new plan](/billing/manage/#upgrade-to-a-new-plan).

To downgrade from an On-demand to a Free plan, see [Cancel a plan](/billing/manage/#cancel-a-plan).

## Billing

### When does a billing period start for a plan?

For the Free plan, the billing period starts on the first day of the calendar month.

For [all paid plans](/billing/plans/#plans), the billing period starts from the subscription date of that plan.

### How do I update my billing information or add a tax ID?

To update your Organization account's billing information or add a tax ID, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. After confirming your role:

- Go to your [account's Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing), and click on **Update billing information**. This will take you to Stripe's portal.
- On Stripe's portal, under **Billing information**, click on **Update information** to update billing-related information such as billing name, email, address, and tax ID.

See [Manage billing information](/billing/manage/#manage-billing-information) for more details.

### Can I update the billing information on my last invoice?

No. Updating billing information will only be reflected on the next invoice.

### Can you email me the receipts?

No. Your account's Owner or Admin can download them. See [Download an invoice](/billing/invoices-and-receipts/#download-and-view-an-invoice) for more information.

### How can I reduce the amount of EAS Build usage by using EAS Update?

Use [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) and [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to test and deploy new code without creating a new build. This option is better for most apps since JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code. You can create multiple test channels with EAS Update and reduce the need to create additional builds for your team. Soon, by using [Expo Fingerprint](https://expo.dev/blog/fingerprint-your-native-runtime), you will be able to build or update selectively, depending on whether you already have a compatible native runtime.

For more information, see [How to optimize build usage](/billing/usage-based-pricing/#how-to-optimize-build-usage).

### How do I estimate my next bill?

To estimate your next bill, go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing). Under **Usage this month**, you will find a summary of your EAS Build usage based on the [resource class](/build/eas-json/#selecting-resource-class), EAS Update usage based on monthly active users and global edge bandwidth, and the amount spent for both.

See [How usage-based pricing works](/billing/usage-based-pricing/#how-usage-based-pricing-works) for more information.

### What is an EAS Update monthly active user (MAU)?

A monthly active user (MAU) is a unique user of your app that downloads at least one update via EAS Update within a single monthly billing period. See [How are monthly active users counted for a billing period](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle) for more information.

## Payments

### Can I pay annually?

Annual plans are available for [Enterprise plan](/billing/plans/#enterprise) customers. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) for more information.

### How can I update our payment information?

To update your Organization account's payment information, make sure that you have either an [Owner or Admin role](/accounts/account-types/#manage-access). For a Personal account, you always have an **Owner** role. After confirming your role:

- Go to your [account's **Billing**](https://expo.dev/settings/billing), and click on **Update billing information**. This will take you to Stripe's portal.
- On Stripe's portal, under **Payment method**, click on **Add payment method** to add a new payment method.

See [Manage billing information](/billing/manage/#payment-method) for more details.

### Can I pay with an Automated Clearing House (ACH), or bank/wire transfer?

[Enterprise plan](/billing/plans/#enterprise) customers on annual plans can pay by ACH as an alternative to credit card payments. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) for more information.

### I need a W-9, or other legal documentation

To request a W-9, [contact us](https://expo.dev/contact).

Find our legal terms at [expo.dev/terms](https://expo.dev/terms).

### Does Expo store my card information?

No, Expo does not. We use Stripe to handle the payment system and they do. See [how Stripe handles security](https://docs.stripe.com/security) for more information.

### How much did I pay for a large build this month?

To view the cost of a large build, go to [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing). Under **Usage this month** you will find a summary of your EAS Build usage based on the [resource class](/build/eas-json/#selecting-resource-class) and the amount spent.

## Add-ons

### How do I increase build concurrencies on my account?

If you're already subscribed to a paid EAS plan, you can buy additional concurrencies in the [**Add-ons** section](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) under **Billing**.

If you're on the Free plan, you'll need to set up a paid subscription. [Click here](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/billing/cart) to choose a new plan. Then, select the number of additional concurrencies to add to your subscription on the checkout page.

Each plan has different number of concurrencies included. If you need more than 5 additional concurrencies, [contact us](https://expo.dev/contact).
