docs/pages/billing/usage-based-pricing.mdx, before:

---
title: Usage-based pricing
description: Learn how Expo applies usage-based billing for customers who exceed their plan quotas and how to monitor your EAS Build usage.
---

import { CreditCard02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/CreditCard02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Expo applies usage-based billing for customers who exceed their [plan](/billing/plans/) allowances. This enables our customers to use what they need without worrying about limitations or requiring contractual obligations.

Usage-based billing is enabled for EAS Build and EAS Update and is billed monthly. We provide an estimate of your existing usage and any overage charges on your [account's Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing).

## How usage-based pricing works

### EAS Build

For EAS Build, a flat fee is charged for an individual build executed at higher-priority levels. This is totaled monthly and charged at the end of your billing period or sooner if you cancel your plan.

> **Note**: Builds that are canceled before any work is done are not charged.

[Production, Enterprise, and Legacy plans](/billing/plans/#plans) subscribers receive credits for EAS Build. These credits can be used to offset the cost of builds. They are reset at the start of the billing period and expire at the end of that billing period.

For example, consider an account subscribed to the Production plan that has 15 medium Android builds, and 10 large iOS builds in a billing period:

| Description             | Price | Quantity |  Total |
| ----------------------- | ----: | -------: | -----: |
| Android builds (medium) |    $1 |       15 |    $15 |
| iOS builds (large)      |    $4 |       10 |    $40 |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          |   -$55 |
| **Total (USD)**         |       |          | **$0** |

Since the credit is included in the Production plan, the subscriber pays $0 for their 25 builds.

Next, consider another example where the credit limit is exceeded:

| Description             | Price | Quantity |   Total |
| ----------------------- | ----: | -------: | ------: |
| Android builds (medium) |    $1 |       20 |     $20 |
| Android builds (large)  |    $2 |       10 |     $20 |
| iOS builds (medium)     |    $2 |       15 |     $30 |
| iOS builds (large)      |    $4 |       15 |     $60 |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          |    -$99 |
| **Total (USD)**         |       |          | **$31** |

In this scenario, the subscriber pays $31 for 60 builds instead of $130 because the EAS Build Credit covers $99.

<BoxLink
  title="Pricing schedule"
  description="Visit our pricing page for more information on the pricing schedule for supported build platforms and the available resource classes."
  href="https://expo.dev/pricing"
  Icon={CreditCard02Icon}
/>

### EAS Update

Usage-based pricing for EAS Update comprises two metrics: monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth.

Monthly updated users reflect the number of unique users who download an update in a billing period. At the same time, global edge bandwidth represents the total amount of bandwidth used for all update downloads. Moreover, each monthly updated user includes 40 MiB of global edge bandwidth, up to that plan's global edge bandwidth limit.

> **Note**: A monthly updated user counts only once per billing period, regardless of how many updates this user downloads.

Each plan has a number of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth included as part of the subscription. These differ for each plan and the most updated numbers. See our [Pricing page](https://expo.dev/pricing), for more information.

> **Note**: The [On-demand plan](/billing/plans/#on-demand) includes the same amount of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth as the Free plan.

For example, let's consider a subscriber to the On-demand plan who deploys 20 updates of 5 MiB each via EAS Update to 10,000 users. The subscription to the plan includes 1,000 monthly updated users and 100 GiB per month. As a result, the subscriber's bill for extra usage will be:

| Description           | Price           | Quantity |     Total |
| --------------------- | --------------- | -------- | --------: |
| Updated users         | $0.005 per user | 9,000    |       $45 |
| Global edge bandwidth | $0.10 per GiB   | 525 GiB  |     $52.5 |
| **Total (USD)**       |                 |          | **$97.5** |

Out of the 10,000 users, 1,000 are included in the On-demand plan. As a result, 9,000 are billed for as part of usage-based billing. Paying for 9,000 updated users also includes approximately 351.6 GiB (9000 users \* 40 MiB / 1024).

The global edge bandwidth calculation is:

| Description                                       | Calculation                         | Quantity     |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Bandwidth used to send updates                    | 20 updates \* 5 MiB \* 10,000 users | 976.5625 GiB |
|                                                   |
| Bandwidth included in plan                        |                                     | 100 GiB      |
| Bandwidth included with 9,000 extra updated users | 9,000 \* 40 MiB                     | 351.5625 GiB |
| **Total**                                         | **976.5625 - 100 - 351.5625**       | **525 GiB**  |

If the same subscriber sends the 21st update of 5 MiB to the same 10,000 users in the current billing period, they will only pay for any extra bandwidth used.

| Description                                       | Calculation                         | Quantity       |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Bandwidth used to send updates                    | 21 updates \* 5 MiB \* 10,000 users | 1,025.39 GiB   |
|                                                   |
| Bandwidth included in plan                        |                                     | 100 GiB        |
| Bandwidth included with 9,000 extra updated users | 9,000 \* 40 MiB                     | 351.5625 GiB   |
| **Total**                                         | **1,025.39 - 100 - 351.5625**       | **573.83 GiB** |

This is because Expo only charges for [unique monthly updated users](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle). As a result, the subscriber's bill for extra usage will be:

| Description           | Price           | Quantity   |      Total |
| --------------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------: |
| Updated users         | $0.005 per user | 9,000      |        $45 |
| Global edge bandwidth | $0.10 per GiB   | 573.83 GiB |      $57.4 |
| **Total (USD)**       |                 |            | **$102.4** |

If the same subscriber is on a Production plan, they will pay $0 as the Production plan includes 20,000 monthly updated users and 1 TiB (1024 GiB). As such, there is no extra bandwidth usage.

## Monitor usage

> **Note**: Billing estimates shown may be delayed by up to 24 hours (one day).

To see the current billing period's usage summary, go to the [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) and under **Usage this month**, you will find a summary for both EAS Build and EAS Update usage.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Billing usage summary for EAS Build and EAS update in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-01.png"
  className="max-w-[640px]"
/>

### EAS Build usage history

To see detailed EAS Build usage for a current or previous billing period:

- Click **Usage** in the navigation menu.
- Under the **EAS Build** section, you will find details on builds count and executed builds based on their platform and resource class.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Detailed EAS Build usage in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-02.png"
  className="max-w-[600px]"
/>

### EAS Update usage history

To see detailed EAS Update usage for a current or previous billing period:

- Click **Usage** in the navigation menu.
- Under the **EAS Update** section, you will find details on updated users and global edge bandwidth details.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Detailed EAS Update usage in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-03.png"
  className="max-w-[600px]"
/>

### Enable notifications for EAS Build usage

You can enable **Plan credit usage** notifications to closely monitor your EAS Build usage. It enables email notifications when 80% and 100% of your plan's EAS Build credit is used.

To enable EAS Build credit usage notification

- Click **Email notifications** in the navigation menu under your account's settings:
- Under **EAS Build notifications**, click **Subscribe** for **Plan credit usage notifications**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Enabling EAS Build plan credit usage notifications in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-04.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### How to optimize build usage

You can use [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) and [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to test and deploy new code without having to create an entirely new build. This will help you iterate faster and reduce build usage.

For most apps, the JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code and configuration. If you are building a new build every time for code changes, consider [using EAS Update to take advantage of the different iteration frequency](/eas-update/how-it-works/) between JavaScript and native code. This way, you can ship those changes as an update instead.

When using Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Deployment (CD) to build pre-production code, you can reduce unnecessary usage by automating the process of building only when changes are made to the native code. You can create a workflow in your CI/CD using [Expo Fingerprint](https://expo.dev/blog/fingerprint-your-native-runtime) to detect when your native code has changed, and only execute a build if it has changed. Otherwise, publish an update if the native code has not changed.

A development build can run any EAS Update that is compatible with its native runtime. If you are using EAS Update with multiple testing channels, you can reduce the need for creating additional builds by having your testers or test devices use the same development build.

### How to optimize update usage

You can manage certain assets to include or exclude when using EAS Update. This reduces the number of assets uploaded or downloaded from the updates server and the global edge bandwidth used.

To optimize storage and bandwidth usage, you can choose to exclude assets that haven't been modified. For example, images or videos that haven't been changed can be excluded. Excluded assets won't be uploaded to the update server and won't be downloaded by the app. However, it's important to make sure that assets that are not part of an update are included in the native build of the app.

> **Note**: If an app has already downloaded an asset that is also part of a new update, the app will not re-download that asset. This will also not add to your account's bandwidth usage.

You can use `npx expo-updates assets:verify <dir>` to check all required assets are included in the update. For more information, see [Asset selection and exclusion](/eas-update/asset-selection/).

Commit message:

[docs] Usage-based pricing: convert examples into separate sections (#32040)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

Based on feedback on
[Discord](https://discord.com/channels/695411232856997968/1012054197409165387/1288641598254743603)

# How

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

- Add section headings for EAS Build and EAS Update examples on the
document page
- Remove BoxLink as it was breaking the flow after the second EAS Build
example since the example section is separate from the main section's
flow and move it to the EAS Build section

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

![CleanShot 2024-10-14 at 23 26
52@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/38532bd5-47ce-47ff-a628-fa651de34326)

![CleanShot 2024-10-14 at 23 27
23@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b1d5a925-1470-4ec1-bc59-aa1d86603bf5)


# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [x] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg:
https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).

docs/pages/billing/usage-based-pricing.mdx, after:

---
title: Usage-based pricing
description: Learn how Expo applies usage-based billing for customers who exceed their plan quotas and how to monitor your EAS Build usage.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Expo applies usage-based billing for customers who exceed their [plan](/billing/plans/) allowances. This enables our customers to use what they need without worrying about limitations or requiring contractual obligations.

Usage-based billing is enabled for EAS Build and EAS Update and is billed monthly. We provide an estimate of your existing usage and any overage charges on your [account's Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing).

## How usage-based pricing works

### EAS Build

For EAS Build, a flat fee is charged for an individual build executed at higher-priority levels. This is totaled monthly and charged at the end of your billing period or sooner if you cancel your plan.

> **Note**: Builds that are canceled before any work is done are not charged.

[Production, Enterprise, and Legacy plans](/billing/plans/#plans) subscribers receive credits for EAS Build. These credits can be used to offset the cost of builds. They are reset at the start of the billing period and expire at the end of that billing period. Visit our [pricing page](https://expo.dev/pricing) for more information on the pricing schedule for supported build platforms and the available resource classes.

#### Example: EAS Build credit usage

Consider an account subscribed to the Production plan that has 15 medium Android builds, and 10 large iOS builds in a billing period:

| Description             | Price | Quantity |  Total |
| ----------------------- | ----: | -------: | -----: |
| Android builds (medium) |    $1 |       15 |    $15 |
| iOS builds (large)      |    $4 |       10 |    $40 |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          |   -$55 |
| **Total (USD)**         |       |          | **$0** |

Since the credit is included in the Production plan, the subscriber pays $0 for their 25 builds.

#### Example: EAS Build credit exceeded

Consider another example where the credit limit is exceeded:

| Description             | Price | Quantity |   Total |
| ----------------------- | ----: | -------: | ------: |
| Android builds (medium) |    $1 |       20 |     $20 |
| Android builds (large)  |    $2 |       10 |     $20 |
| iOS builds (medium)     |    $2 |       15 |     $30 |
| iOS builds (large)      |    $4 |       15 |     $60 |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          |    -$99 |
| **Total (USD)**         |       |          | **$31** |

In this scenario, the subscriber pays $31 for 60 builds instead of $130 because the EAS Build Credit covers $99.

### EAS Update

Usage-based pricing for EAS Update comprises two metrics: monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth.

Monthly updated users reflect the number of unique users who download an update in a billing period. At the same time, global edge bandwidth represents the total amount of bandwidth used for all update downloads. Moreover, each monthly updated user includes 40 MiB of global edge bandwidth, up to that plan's global edge bandwidth limit.

> **Note**: A monthly updated user counts only once per billing period, regardless of how many updates this user downloads.

Each plan has a number of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth included as part of the subscription. These differ for each plan and the most updated numbers. See our [pricing page](https://expo.dev/pricing), for more information.

#### Example: EAS Update usage

> **Note**: The [On-demand plan](/billing/plans/#on-demand) includes the same amount of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth as the Free plan.

Consider a subscriber to the On-demand plan who deploys 20 updates of 5 MiB each via EAS Update to 10,000 users. The subscription to the plan includes 1,000 monthly updated users and 100 GiB per month. As a result, the subscriber's bill for extra usage will be:

| Description           | Price           | Quantity |     Total |
| --------------------- | --------------- | -------- | --------: |
| Updated users         | $0.005 per user | 9,000    |       $45 |
| Global edge bandwidth | $0.10 per GiB   | 525 GiB  |     $52.5 |
| **Total (USD)**       |                 |          | **$97.5** |

Out of the 10,000 users, 1,000 are included in the On-demand plan. As a result, 9,000 are billed for as part of usage-based billing. Paying for 9,000 updated users also includes approximately 351.6 GiB (9000 users \* 40 MiB / 1024).

The global edge bandwidth calculation is:

| Description                                       | Calculation                         | Quantity     |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Bandwidth used to send updates                    | 20 updates \* 5 MiB \* 10,000 users | 976.5625 GiB |
|                                                   |
| Bandwidth included in plan                        |                                     | 100 GiB      |
| Bandwidth included with 9,000 extra updated users | 9,000 \* 40 MiB                     | 351.5625 GiB |
| **Total**                                         | **976.5625 - 100 - 351.5625**       | **525 GiB**  |

If the same subscriber sends the 21st update of 5 MiB to the same 10,000 users in the current billing period, they will only pay for any extra bandwidth used.

| Description                                       | Calculation                         | Quantity       |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Bandwidth used to send updates                    | 21 updates \* 5 MiB \* 10,000 users | 1,025.39 GiB   |
|                                                   |
| Bandwidth included in plan                        |                                     | 100 GiB        |
| Bandwidth included with 9,000 extra updated users | 9,000 \* 40 MiB                     | 351.5625 GiB   |
| **Total**                                         | **1,025.39 - 100 - 351.5625**       | **573.83 GiB** |

This is because Expo only charges for [unique monthly updated users](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle). As a result, the subscriber's bill for extra usage will be:

| Description           | Price           | Quantity   |      Total |
| --------------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------: |
| Updated users         | $0.005 per user | 9,000      |        $45 |
| Global edge bandwidth | $0.10 per GiB   | 573.83 GiB |      $57.4 |
| **Total (USD)**       |                 |            | **$102.4** |

If the same subscriber is on a Production plan, they will pay $0 as the Production plan includes 20,000 monthly updated users and 1 TiB (1024 GiB). As such, there is no extra bandwidth usage.

## Monitor usage

> **Note**: Billing estimates shown may be delayed by up to 24 hours (one day).

To see the current billing period's usage summary, go to the [Billing](https://expo.dev/settings/billing) and under **Usage this month**, you will find a summary for both EAS Build and EAS Update usage.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Billing usage summary for EAS Build and EAS update in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-01.png"
  className="max-w-[640px]"
/>

### EAS Build usage history

To see detailed EAS Build usage for a current or previous billing period:

- Click **Usage** in the navigation menu.
- Under the **EAS Build** section, you will find details on builds count and executed builds based on their platform and resource class.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Detailed EAS Build usage in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-02.png"
  className="max-w-[600px]"
/>

### EAS Update usage history

To see detailed EAS Update usage for a current or previous billing period:

- Click **Usage** in the navigation menu.
- Under the **EAS Update** section, you will find details on updated users and global edge bandwidth details.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Detailed EAS Update usage in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-03.png"
  className="max-w-[600px]"
/>

### Enable notifications for EAS Build usage

You can enable **Plan credit usage** notifications to closely monitor your EAS Build usage. It enables email notifications when 80% and 100% of your plan's EAS Build credit is used.

To enable EAS Build credit usage notification

- Click **Email notifications** in the navigation menu under your account's settings:
- Under **EAS Build notifications**, click **Subscribe** for **Plan credit usage notifications**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Enabling EAS Build plan credit usage notifications in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-04.png"
  className="max-w-[720px]"
/>

### How to optimize build usage

You can use [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) and [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to test and deploy new code without having to create an entirely new build. This will help you iterate faster and reduce build usage.

For most apps, the JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code and configuration. If you are building a new build every time for code changes, consider [using EAS Update to take advantage of the different iteration frequency](/eas-update/how-it-works/) between JavaScript and native code. This way, you can ship those changes as an update instead.

When using Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Deployment (CD) to build pre-production code, you can reduce unnecessary usage by automating the process of building only when changes are made to the native code. You can create a workflow in your CI/CD using [Expo Fingerprint](https://expo.dev/blog/fingerprint-your-native-runtime) to detect when your native code has changed, and only execute a build if it has changed. Otherwise, publish an update if the native code has not changed.

A development build can run any EAS Update that is compatible with its native runtime. If you are using EAS Update with multiple testing channels, you can reduce the need for creating additional builds by having your testers or test devices use the same development build.

### How to optimize update usage

You can manage certain assets to include or exclude when using EAS Update. This reduces the number of assets uploaded or downloaded from the updates server and the global edge bandwidth used.

To optimize storage and bandwidth usage, you can choose to exclude assets that haven't been modified. For example, images or videos that haven't been changed can be excluded. Excluded assets won't be uploaded to the update server and won't be downloaded by the app. However, it's important to make sure that assets that are not part of an update are included in the native build of the app.

> **Note**: If an app has already downloaded an asset that is also part of a new update, the app will not re-download that asset. This will also not add to your account's bandwidth usage.

You can use `npx expo-updates assets:verify <dir>` to check all required assets are included in the update. For more information, see [Asset selection and exclusion](/eas-update/asset-selection/).
