docs/pages/versions/v52.0.0/sdk/location.mdx, before:

---
title: Location
description: A library that provides access to reading geolocation information, polling current location or subscribing location update events from the device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-52/packages/expo-location'
packageName: 'expo-location'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-location.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { PlatformTag } from '~/ui/components/Tag/PlatformTag';

`expo-location` allows reading geolocation information from the device. Your app can poll for the current location or subscribe to location update events.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-location` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-location",
        {
          "locationAlwaysAndWhenInUsePermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'locationAlwaysAndWhenInUsePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationalwaysandwheninuseusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'locationAlwaysPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationalwaysusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'locationWhenInUsePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationwheninuseusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'isIosBackgroundLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A boolean to enable `location` in the `UIBackgroundModes` in **Info.plist**.',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAndroidBackgroundLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'A boolean to enable the [`ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION`](#permission-access_background_location) permission.',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAndroidForegroundServiceEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'A boolean to enable the [`FOREGROUND_SERVICE`](#permission-foreground_service) permission and [`FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION`](#permission-foreground_service_location). Defaults to `true` if `isAndroidBackgroundLocationEnabled` is `true`, otherwise `false`.',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-location` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-location#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

### Background location

Background location allows your app to receive location updates while it is running in the background and includes both location updates and region monitoring through geofencing. This feature is subject to platform API limitations and system constraints:

- Background location will stop if the user terminates the app.
- Background location resumes if the user restarts the app.
- <PlatformTag platform="android" /> A terminated app will not automatically restart when a location
  or geofencing event occurs due to platform limitations.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> The system will restart the terminated app when a new geofence
  event occurs.

> **Info** On Android, the result of removing an app from the recent apps list varies by device vendor. For example, some implementations treat removing an app from the recent apps list as killing it. Read more about these differences here: [https://dontkillmyapp.com](https://dontkillmyapp.com).

### Background location configuration&ensp;<PlatformTag platform="ios" />

To be able to run background location on iOS, you need to add the `location` value to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in your app's **Info.plist** file.

**If you're using [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**, the required `UIBackgroundModes` configuration will be applied automatically by prebuild.

<Collapsible summary="Configure UIBackgroundModes manually on iOS">

If you're not using Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) or you're using a native iOS project, then you'll need to add the following to your **Expo.plist** file:

```xml ios/project-name/Supporting/Expo.plist
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
  <array>
    <string>location</string>
  </array>
</key>
```

</Collapsible>

### Background location methods

> **warning** **Warning:** Background location tracking support is provided as-is and is not guaranteed to work in all scenarios. We currently are not prioritizing resources to improve it, but we hope to in the future. You may want to use [`react-native-background-geolocation`](https://github.com/transistorsoft/react-native-background-geolocation) instead &mdash; it requires purchasing a license and is a well-maintained and supported library that includes a config plugin.

To use Background Location methods, the following requirements apply:

- Location permissions must be granted. On iOS it must be granted with `Always` option.
- Background location task must be defined in the top-level scope, using [`TaskManager.defineTask`](task-manager.mdx#taskmanagerdefinetasktaskname-taskexecutor).
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" className="float-left" /> `"location"` background mode must be
  specified in **Info.plist** file. See [Background location
  configuration](#background-location-configuration).
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" className="float-left" /> You must use a [development
  build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to use background location since it is not
  supported in the Expo Go app.

### Geofencing methods

To use Geofencing methods, the following requirements apply:

- Location permissions must be granted. On iOS it must be granted with `Always` option.
- The Geofencing task must be defined in the top-level scope, using [TaskManager.defineTask](task-manager.mdx#taskmanagerdefinetasktaskname-taskexecutor).

When using Geofencing, the following platform differences apply:

- <PlatformTag platform="android" /> You are allowed [up to
  100](https://developer.android.com/develop/sensors-and-location/location/geofencing) active
  geofences per app.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> Expo Location will report the initial state of the registered
  geofence(s) at app startup.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> There is a [limit of
  20](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corelocation/monitoring_the_user_s_proximity_to_geographic_regions)
  `regions` that can be simultaneously monitored.

## Usage

If you're using the Android Emulator or iOS Simulator, ensure that [Location is enabled](#enable-emulator-location).

<SnackInline label='Location' dependencies={['expo-location', 'expo-constants', 'expo-device']}>

```tsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { Platform, Text, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
/* @hide */
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
/* @end */
import * as Location from 'expo-location';

export default function App() {
  const [location, setLocation] = useState<Location.LocationObject | null>(null);
  const [errorMsg, setErrorMsg] = useState<string | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function getCurrentLocation() {
      /* @hide */
      if (Platform.OS === 'android' && !Device.isDevice) {
        setErrorMsg(
          'Oops, this will not work on Snack in an Android Emulator. Try it on your device!'
        );
        return;
      }
      /* @end */
      let { status } = await Location.requestForegroundPermissionsAsync();
      if (status !== 'granted') {
        setErrorMsg('Permission to access location was denied');
        return;
      }

      let location = await Location.getCurrentPositionAsync({});
      setLocation(location);
    }

    getCurrentLocation();
  }, []);

  let text = 'Waiting...';
  if (errorMsg) {
    text = errorMsg;
  } else if (location) {
    text = JSON.stringify(location);
  }

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text style={styles.paragraph}>{text}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    padding: 20,
  },
  paragraph: {
    fontSize: 18,
    textAlign: 'center',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Enable Emulator Location

### Android Emulator

Open Android Studio, and launch the Android Emulator. Inside it, go to **Settings** > **Location** and enable **Use location**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Location settings in Android Emulator for versions 12 and higher"
  src="/static/images/sdk/location/enable-android-emulator-location.png"
  className="max-w-[360px]"
/>

If you don't receive the locations in the emulator, you may have to turn off the **Improve Location Accuracy** setting. This will turn off Wi-Fi location and only use GPS. Then you can manipulate the location with GPS data through the emulator.

For Android 12 and higher, go to **Settings** > **Location** > **Location Services** > **Google Location Accuracy**, and turn off **Improve Location Accuracy**. For Android 11 and lower, go to **Settings** > **Location** > **Advanced** > **Google Location Accuracy**, and turn off **Google Location Accuracy**.

### iOS Simulator

With Simulator open, go to **Features** > **Location** and choose any option besides **None**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Location settings in iOS simulator."
  src="/static/images/sdk/location/ios-simulator-location.png"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

## API

```js
import * as Location from 'expo-location';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-location" apiName="Location" />

## Permissions

### Android

> **warning**: Foreground and background services are not available in Expo Go for Android. Instead, we recommend using a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to avoid limitations.

When you install the `expo-location` module, it automatically adds the following permissions:

- `ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION`: for approximate device location
- `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION`: for precise device location

The following permissions are optional:

- `FOREGROUND_SERVICE` and `FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION`: to be able to access location while the app is open but backgrounded. `FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION` is only required as of Android 14. When you enable this in a new build, you will need to [submit your app for review and request access to use the foreground service permission](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/13392821?hl=en).
- `ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION`: to be able to access location while the app is backgrounded or closed. When you enable this in a new build, you will need to [submit your app for review and request access to use the background location permission](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9799150?hl=en).

<AndroidPermissions
  permissions={[
    'ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION',
    'ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION',
    'FOREGROUND_SERVICE',
    'FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION',
    'ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION',
  ]}
/>

#### Excluding a permission

> **Note**: Excluding a **required permission** from a module in your app can break the functionality corresponding to that permission. Always make sure to include all permissions a module is dependent on.

When your Expo project doesn't benefit from having particular permission included, you can omit it. For example, if your application doesn't need access to the precise location, you can exclude the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission.

Another example can be stated using [available location accuracies](#accuracy). Android defines the approximate location accuracy estimation within about 3 square kilometers, and the precise location accuracy estimation within about 50 meters. For example, if the location accuracy value is [Low](#low), you can exclude `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission. To learn more about levels of location accuracies, see [Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/location/permissions#accuracy).

To learn more on how to exclude permission, see [Excluding Android permissions](/guides/permissions/#excluding-android-permissions).

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions
  permissions={[
    'NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription',
    'NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription',
    'NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription',
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

[docs][location] clarify background location permissions
There are some differences on iOS/Android when it comes to permissions.

This commit clarifies these.

- Updated location.mdx in both unversioned and sdk-52

docs/pages/versions/v52.0.0/sdk/location.mdx, after:

---
title: Location
description: A library that provides access to reading geolocation information, polling current location or subscribing location update events from the device.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-52/packages/expo-location'
packageName: 'expo-location'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-location.png'
platforms: ['android', 'ios', 'web']
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { AndroidPermissions, IOSPermissions } from '~/components/plugins/permissions';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import {
  ConfigReactNative,
  ConfigPluginExample,
  ConfigPluginProperties,
} from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { PlatformTag } from '~/ui/components/Tag/PlatformTag';

`expo-location` allows reading geolocation information from the device. Your app can poll for the current location or subscribe to location update events.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-location` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and require building a new app binary to take effect.

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-location",
        {
          "locationAlwaysAndWhenInUsePermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

<ConfigPluginProperties
  properties={[
    {
      name: 'locationAlwaysAndWhenInUsePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationalwaysandwheninuseusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'locationAlwaysPermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationalwaysusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'locationWhenInUsePermission',
      platform: 'ios',
      description:
        'A string to set the [`NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`](#permission-nslocationwheninuseusagedescription) permission message.',
      default: '"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to use your location"',
    },
    {
      name: 'isIosBackgroundLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'ios',
      description: 'A boolean to enable `location` in the `UIBackgroundModes` in **Info.plist**.',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAndroidBackgroundLocationEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'A boolean to enable the [`ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION`](#permission-access_background_location) permission.',
      default: 'false',
    },
    {
      name: 'isAndroidForegroundServiceEnabled',
      platform: 'android',
      description:
        'A boolean to enable the [`FOREGROUND_SERVICE`](#permission-foreground_service) permission and [`FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION`](#permission-foreground_service_location). Defaults to `true` if `isAndroidBackgroundLocationEnabled` is `true`, otherwise `false`.',
    },
  ]}
/>

<ConfigReactNative>

Learn how to configure the native projects in the [installation instructions in the `expo-location` repository](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-location#installation-in-bare-react-native-projects).

</ConfigReactNative>

### Background location

Background location allows your app to receive location updates while it is running in the background and includes both location updates and region monitoring through geofencing. This feature is subject to platform API limitations and system constraints:

- Background location will stop if the user terminates the app.
- Background location resumes if the user restarts the app.
- <PlatformTag platform="android" /> A terminated app will not automatically restart when a location
  or geofencing event occurs due to platform limitations.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> The system will restart the terminated app when a new geofence
  event occurs.

> **Info** On Android, the result of removing an app from the recent apps list varies by device vendor. For example, some implementations treat removing an app from the recent apps list as killing it. Read more about these differences here: [https://dontkillmyapp.com](https://dontkillmyapp.com).

### Background location configuration&ensp;<PlatformTag platform="ios" />

To be able to run background location on iOS, you need to add the `location` value to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in your app's **Info.plist** file.

**If you're using [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**, the required `UIBackgroundModes` configuration will be applied automatically by prebuild.

<Collapsible summary="Configure UIBackgroundModes manually on iOS">

If you're not using Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) or you're using a native iOS project, then you'll need to add the following to your **Expo.plist** file:

```xml ios/project-name/Supporting/Expo.plist
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
  <array>
    <string>location</string>
  </array>
</key>
```

</Collapsible>

### Background location methods

> **warning** **Warning:** Background location tracking support is provided as-is and is not guaranteed to work in all scenarios. We currently are not prioritizing resources to improve it, but we hope to in the future. You may want to use [`react-native-background-geolocation`](https://github.com/transistorsoft/react-native-background-geolocation) instead &mdash; it requires purchasing a license and is a well-maintained and supported library that includes a config plugin.

To use Background Location methods, the following requirements apply:

- Location permissions must be granted.
- Background location task must be defined in the top-level scope, using [`TaskManager.defineTask`](task-manager.mdx#taskmanagerdefinetasktaskname-taskexecutor).
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" className="float-left" /> `"location"` background mode must be
  specified in **Info.plist** file. See [Background location
  configuration](#background-location-configuration).
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" className="float-left" /> You must use a [development
  build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to use background location since it is not
  supported in the Expo Go app.

### Geofencing methods

To use Geofencing methods, the following requirements apply:

- Location permissions must be granted.
- The Geofencing task must be defined in the top-level scope, using [TaskManager.defineTask](task-manager.mdx#taskmanagerdefinetasktaskname-taskexecutor).

When using Geofencing, the following platform differences apply:

- <PlatformTag platform="android" /> You are allowed [up to
  100](https://developer.android.com/develop/sensors-and-location/location/geofencing) active
  geofences per app.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> Expo Location will report the initial state of the registered
  geofence(s) at app startup.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> There is a [limit of
  20](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corelocation/monitoring_the_user_s_proximity_to_geographic_regions)
  `regions` that can be simultaneously monitored.

### Background Permissions

To use location tracking or Geofencing in the background, you must request the appropriate permissions:

- On iOS, it must be granted with the `Always` option using `requestBackgroundPermissionsAsync`.
- On Android, you must request both foreground and background permissions.

## Usage

If you're using the Android Emulator or iOS Simulator, ensure that [Location is enabled](#enable-emulator-location).

<SnackInline label='Location' dependencies={['expo-location', 'expo-constants', 'expo-device']}>

```tsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { Platform, Text, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
/* @hide */
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
/* @end */
import * as Location from 'expo-location';

export default function App() {
  const [location, setLocation] = useState<Location.LocationObject | null>(null);
  const [errorMsg, setErrorMsg] = useState<string | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function getCurrentLocation() {
      /* @hide */
      if (Platform.OS === 'android' && !Device.isDevice) {
        setErrorMsg(
          'Oops, this will not work on Snack in an Android Emulator. Try it on your device!'
        );
        return;
      }
      /* @end */
      let { status } = await Location.requestForegroundPermissionsAsync();
      if (status !== 'granted') {
        setErrorMsg('Permission to access location was denied');
        return;
      }

      let location = await Location.getCurrentPositionAsync({});
      setLocation(location);
    }

    getCurrentLocation();
  }, []);

  let text = 'Waiting...';
  if (errorMsg) {
    text = errorMsg;
  } else if (location) {
    text = JSON.stringify(location);
  }

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text style={styles.paragraph}>{text}</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
    padding: 20,
  },
  paragraph: {
    fontSize: 18,
    textAlign: 'center',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Enable Emulator Location

### Android Emulator

Open Android Studio, and launch the Android Emulator. Inside it, go to **Settings** > **Location** and enable **Use location**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Location settings in Android Emulator for versions 12 and higher"
  src="/static/images/sdk/location/enable-android-emulator-location.png"
  className="max-w-[360px]"
/>

If you don't receive the locations in the emulator, you may have to turn off the **Improve Location Accuracy** setting. This will turn off Wi-Fi location and only use GPS. Then you can manipulate the location with GPS data through the emulator.

For Android 12 and higher, go to **Settings** > **Location** > **Location Services** > **Google Location Accuracy**, and turn off **Improve Location Accuracy**. For Android 11 and lower, go to **Settings** > **Location** > **Advanced** > **Google Location Accuracy**, and turn off **Google Location Accuracy**.

### iOS Simulator

With Simulator open, go to **Features** > **Location** and choose any option besides **None**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Location settings in iOS simulator."
  src="/static/images/sdk/location/ios-simulator-location.png"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

## API

```js
import * as Location from 'expo-location';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-location" apiName="Location" />

## Permissions

### Android

> **warning**: Foreground and background services are not available in Expo Go for Android. Instead, we recommend using a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to avoid limitations.

When you install the `expo-location` module, it automatically adds the following permissions:

- `ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION`: for approximate device location
- `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION`: for precise device location

The following permissions are optional:

- `FOREGROUND_SERVICE` and `FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION`: to be able to access location while the app is open but backgrounded. `FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION` is only required as of Android 14. When you enable this in a new build, you will need to [submit your app for review and request access to use the foreground service permission](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/13392821?hl=en).
- `ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION`: to be able to access location while the app is backgrounded or closed. When you enable this in a new build, you will need to [submit your app for review and request access to use the background location permission](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9799150?hl=en).

<AndroidPermissions
  permissions={[
    'ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION',
    'ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION',
    'FOREGROUND_SERVICE',
    'FOREGROUND_SERVICE_LOCATION',
    'ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION',
  ]}
/>

#### Excluding a permission

> **Note**: Excluding a **required permission** from a module in your app can break the functionality corresponding to that permission. Always make sure to include all permissions a module is dependent on.

When your Expo project doesn't benefit from having particular permission included, you can omit it. For example, if your application doesn't need access to the precise location, you can exclude the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission.

Another example can be stated using [available location accuracies](#accuracy). Android defines the approximate location accuracy estimation within about 3 square kilometers, and the precise location accuracy estimation within about 50 meters. For example, if the location accuracy value is [Low](#low), you can exclude `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission. To learn more about levels of location accuracies, see [Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/location/permissions#accuracy).

To learn more on how to exclude permission, see [Excluding Android permissions](/guides/permissions/#excluding-android-permissions).

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

<IOSPermissions
  permissions={[
    'NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription',
    'NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription',
    'NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription',
  ]}
/>
