docs/pages/workflow/snack.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Snack: a playground in your browser'
description: Learn about Expo Snack, what features it provides and how you can use it to share code examples.
---

import SnackEmbed from '~/components/plugins/SnackEmbed';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Creating a shareable and runnable code example should be quick and easy. Without Snack, if you have some code that you want to share then other developers that want to run it need to have a development environment set up, they need to download your project, trust that it is safe to run, install the dependencies, and then start the project. Tools like CodeSandbox, Blitz, and Replit solved this for web apps. You can create a project, write the code in your browser, and share it with a link.

Snack solves precisely that problem. It's an open-source platform for running React Native apps in the browser. You can write React Native code and run it directly in the browser or Expo Go. When you want to share the code, save it and share the URL, or embed it on your website, like in the [React Native](http://reactnative.dev/) and [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/) documentation sites.

## Get started

Head over to [https://snack.expo.dev](https://snack.expo.dev) and start typing! On the right, you'll see the preview of the changes you make. By going to the "Android" or "iOS" tabs, you can preview it on a simulator directly in the browser. To open it on your device, go to the "My Device" tab and open it in the Expo Go app.

## Add a library

You can add any library that works in a managed Expo project, like [`expo-camera`](/versions/latest/sdk/camera.mdx) or [`React Navigation`](https://reactnavigation.org). Add the import in the file that you want, and Snack will prompt you to install that dependency. You can also specify the exact version by adding it to your **package.json** file.

> **warning** Not all React Native libraries will work on Snack. First, [the same constraints](/workflow/using-libraries.mdx) that apply to the Expo managed workflow apply here. Second, Snack bundles the code differently than Expo CLI and React Native CLI, so in some cases libraries that work locally on your machine will fail to load in Snack.

## Save and share code

You can always share the code you just created. Save the Snack on your Expo account, and share the link. Anyone with that link can view, fork and edit, and share it as another Snack. Saved Snacks will appear for your account under the Profile tab in the Expo Go app.

## Embed Snack on your website

Snacks can also be embedded as "live" code previews, like the [React Native docs](https://reactnative.dev/docs/intro-react#your-first-component). Either share a link with the embedded code or use [the embed script](https://github.com/expo/snack/blob/main/docs/embedding-snacks.mdx) for the live preview. If you use [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), check out the [remark-snackplayer plugin](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/tree/master/plugins/remark-snackplayer).

<SnackEmbed snackId="@brents/hello-world" preview />

It's also possible to format the code however you like on your website and send the code to run on Snack when requested by the user. See [SnackInline](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/docs/components/plugins/SnackInline.tsx) for how we implement this in the Expo documentation.

<SnackInline>

```js
import React from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Hello, World!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Debugging code in Snack

All logs from the web and mobile device previews are visible in the toolbar below the editor. To inspect the logs, click on the bottom toolbar and go to the "Logs" tab. While it's possible to view logs, it is not possible to connect a JavaScript debugger in Snack, you will need to download your project and run it with [Expo CLI](/more/expo-cli/) to do this. Press the download button in the header bar on the right to download the project to your machine.

## Static analysis

ESLint and TypeScript are integrated with Snack. When making a syntax error or just a typo, you will be warned about the error. TypeScript will give you auto-completion as well. Right-click your **App.js** file in the file browser on the left side of the editor and choose **Rename to App.tsx** to enable TypeScript.

Commit message:

[docs] Update More section in Guides

docs/pages/workflow/snack.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Snack: a playground in your browser'
description: Learn about Expo Snack, what features it provides and how you can use it to share code examples.
---

import SnackEmbed from '~/components/plugins/SnackEmbed';
import { SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Creating a shareable and runnable code example should be quick and easy. With [Snack](https://snack.expo.dev), you can share code with other developers using a link. Developers with whom you're sharing code don't have to run worry about downloading the code or having an environment set up on their end to run it. Tools like CodeSandbox, Blitz, and Replit solved this for web apps. You can create a project, write the code in your browser, and share it with a link.

Snack solves precisely that problem. It's an open-source platform for running React Native apps in the browser. You can write React Native code and run it directly in the browser or [Expo Go](/more/glossary-of-terms/#expo-go). When you want to share the code, save it and share the URL, or embed it on your website, such as in the [React Native](http://reactnative.dev/) and [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/) documentation websites.

## Get started

Head over to [snack.expo.dev](https://snack.expo.dev) and start typing! On the right, you'll see the preview of the changes you make. By going to the **iOS** or **Android** tabs, you can preview it on a simulator directly in the browser. To open it on your device, go to the **My Device** tab and open it in the Expo Go app.

## Add a library

You can add any library that works in a managed Expo project, such as [`expo-camera`](/versions/latest/sdk/camera) or [`React Navigation`](https://reactnavigation.org). Add the import in the file that you want, and Snack will prompt you to install that dependency. You can also specify the exact version by adding it to your **package.json** file.

> **warning** Not all React Native libraries will work on Snack. First, [the same constraints](/workflow/using-libraries/#determining-third-party-library-compatibility) that apply to the Expo Go apply here. Second, Snack bundles the code differently than Expo CLI and React Native CLI. In some cases, libraries that work locally on your machine will fail to load in Snack.

## Save and share code

You can always share the code you just created. Save the Snack on your Expo account, and share the link. Anyone with that link can view, fork and edit, and share it as another Snack. Saved Snacks will appear for your account under the Profile tab in the Expo Go app.

## Embed Snack on your website

Snacks can also be embedded as **live code previews**, for example, in the [React Native documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/intro-react#your-first-component).

Either share a link with the embedded code or use [the embed script](https://github.com/expo/snack/blob/main/docs/embedding-snacks.mdx) for the live preview. If you use [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), see [`remark-snackplayer`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/tree/master/plugins/remark-snackplayer) plugin.

<SnackEmbed snackId="@brents/hello-world" preview />

You can also use the **Show embed code** in your Snack to get the embed code for your website.

### SnackInline

It's also possible to format the code as per your needs on your website and send the code to run on Snack when requested by the user. See [SnackInline](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/docs/components/plugins/SnackInline.tsx) on how we implement this in the Expo documentation.

<SnackInline>

```js
import React from 'react';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Hello, World!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
```

</SnackInline>

## Debugging code in Snack

All logs from the web and mobile device previews are visible in the toolbar below the editor. To inspect the logs, click on the bottom toolbar and go to the **Logs** tab. While it's possible to view logs, it is not possible to connect a JavaScript debugger in Snack.

You'll need to download your project and use [Expo CLI](/more/expo-cli/) to do this. Press the download button in the header bar on the right to download the project to your machine.

## Static analysis

ESLint and TypeScript are integrated with Snack. When making a syntax error or a typo, you'll be warned about the error.

You can also format your code using the **Prettier** button in the status bar at the bottom of the editor.

### Enable TypeScript in Snack

TypeScript also gives auto-completion. To use it, right-click your **App.js** under **Project** in the file browser on the left side of the editor and choose **Rename to App.tsx** to enable TypeScript.
