docs/pages/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrade Expo SDK
description: Learn how to incrementally upgrade the Expo SDK version in your project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> **info** We recommend upgrading SDK versions incrementally, one at a time. Doing so will help you pinpoint breakages and issues that arise during the upgrade process.

With a new SDK release, the latest version enters the current release status. This applies to Expo Go as it only supports the latest SDK version and previous versions are no longer supported. We recommend using [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) for production apps as the backwards compatibility for older SDK versions on EAS services tends to be much longer, but not forever.

If you are looking to install a specific version of Expo Go, visit [expo.dev/go](https://expo.dev/go). It supports downloads for Android devices/emulators and iOS simulators. However, due to iOS platform restrictions, only the latest version of Expo Go is available for installation on physical iOS devices.

## How to upgrade to the latest SDK version

<Step label="1">

### Upgrade the Expo SDK

Install the new version of the Expo package:

<Tabs>
<Tab label="npm">

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Install latest',
    '$ npx expo install expo@latest',
    '',
    '# Install a specific SDK version (for example, SDK 52)',
    '$ npx expo install expo@^52.0.0',
  ]}
/>

</Tab>

<Tab label="Yarn">

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Install latest',
    '$ yarn expo install expo@latest',
    '',
    '# Install a specific SDK version (for example, SDK 52)',
    '$ yarn expo install expo@^52.0.0',
  ]}
/>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Upgrade dependencies

Upgrade all dependencies to match the installed SDK version.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install --fix']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Update native projects

- **If you use [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**: Delete the **android** and **ios** directories if you generated them for a previous SDK version in your local project directory. They'll be re-generated next time you run a build, either with `npx expo run:ios`, `npx expo prebuild`, or with EAS Build.
- **If you don't use [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**: Run `npx pod-install` if you have an `ios` directory. Apply any relevant changes from the [Native project upgrade helper](/bare/upgrade/). Alternatively, you could consider [adopting prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild/) for easier upgrades in the future.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### Follow the release notes for any other instructions

Read the [SDK changelogs](#sdk-changelogs) for the SDK version you are upgrading to. They contain important information about breaking changes, deprecations, and other changes that may affect your app. Refer to tue "Upgrading your app" section at the bottom of the release notes page for any additional instructions.

</Step>

## SDK Changelogs

Each SDK announcement release notes post contains information deprecations, breaking changes, and anything else that might be unique to that particular SDK version. When upgrading, be sure to check these out to make sure you don't miss anything.

- **SDK 52**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/11-12-sdk-52)
- **SDK 51**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/05-07-sdk-51)
- **SDK 50**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/01-18-sdk-50)

### Deprecated SDK Version Changelogs

The following blog posts may included outdated information, but they are still useful for reference if you happen to fall far behind on SDK upgrades.

<Collapsible summary="See a full list of deprecated SDK release changelogs">

- **SDK 49**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-49-c6d398cdf740)
- **SDK 48**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-48-ccb8302e231)
- **SDK 47**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-47-a0f6f5c038af)
- **SDK 46**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-46-c2a1655f63f7)
- **SDK 45**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-45-f4e332954a68)
- **SDK 44**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-44-4c4b8306584a)
- **SDK 43**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-43-aa9b3c7d5541)
- **SDK 42**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-42-579aee2348b6)
- **SDK 41**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-41-12cc5232f2ef)
- **SDK 40**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-40-is-now-available-1in0)
- **SDK 39**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-39-is-now-available-1lm8)
- **SDK 38**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-38-is-now-available-5aa0)
- **SDK 37**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-37-is-now-available-69g)
- **SDK 36**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-36-is-now-available-b91897b437fe)
- **SDK 35**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-35-is-now-available-beee0dfafbf4)

</Collapsible>

Commit message:

[docs] Add link to React Native 0.77 upgrade changelog (#34865)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

Based on a discussion with @brentvatne to increase the visibility of the
React Native 0.77 changelog.

# How

<!--
How did you build this feature or fix this bug and why?
-->

Update the SDK changelogs section to include the React Native 0.77
changelog for SDK 52.


# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

## Preview

![CleanShot 2025-02-12 at 22 11
23@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9b39bad6-9a59-40a4-8c27-6797f6c1f40d)


# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrade Expo SDK
description: Learn how to incrementally upgrade the Expo SDK version in your project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> **info** We recommend upgrading SDK versions incrementally, one at a time. Doing so will help you pinpoint breakages and issues that arise during the upgrade process.

With a new SDK release, the latest version enters the current release status. This applies to Expo Go as it only supports the latest SDK version and previous versions are no longer supported. We recommend using [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) for production apps as the backwards compatibility for older SDK versions on EAS services tends to be much longer, but not forever.

If you are looking to install a specific version of Expo Go, visit [expo.dev/go](https://expo.dev/go). It supports downloads for Android devices/emulators and iOS simulators. However, due to iOS platform restrictions, only the latest version of Expo Go is available for installation on physical iOS devices.

## How to upgrade to the latest SDK version

<Step label="1">

### Upgrade the Expo SDK

Install the new version of the Expo package:

<Tabs>
<Tab label="npm">

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Install latest',
    '$ npx expo install expo@latest',
    '',
    '# Install a specific SDK version (for example, SDK 52)',
    '$ npx expo install expo@^52.0.0',
  ]}
/>

</Tab>

<Tab label="Yarn">

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Install latest',
    '$ yarn expo install expo@latest',
    '',
    '# Install a specific SDK version (for example, SDK 52)',
    '$ yarn expo install expo@^52.0.0',
  ]}
/>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Upgrade dependencies

Upgrade all dependencies to match the installed SDK version.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install --fix']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Update native projects

- **If you use [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**: Delete the **android** and **ios** directories if you generated them for a previous SDK version in your local project directory. They'll be re-generated next time you run a build, either with `npx expo run:ios`, `npx expo prebuild`, or with EAS Build.
- **If you don't use [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)**: Run `npx pod-install` if you have an `ios` directory. Apply any relevant changes from the [Native project upgrade helper](/bare/upgrade/). Alternatively, you could consider [adopting prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild/) for easier upgrades in the future.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### Follow the release notes for any other instructions

Read the [SDK changelogs](#sdk-changelogs) for the SDK version you are upgrading to. They contain important information about breaking changes, deprecations, and other changes that may affect your app. Refer to tue "Upgrading your app" section at the bottom of the release notes page for any additional instructions.

</Step>

## SDK Changelogs

Each SDK announcement release notes post contains information deprecations, breaking changes, and anything else that might be unique to that particular SDK version. When upgrading, be sure to check these out to make sure you don't miss anything.

- **SDK 52**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/11-12-sdk-52)
  - **React Native 0.77 is available with Expo SDK 52**. To upgrade, see these [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2025/01-21-react-native-0.77).
- **SDK 51**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/05-07-sdk-51)
- **SDK 50**: [Release notes](https://expo.dev/changelog/2024/01-18-sdk-50)

### Deprecated SDK Version Changelogs

The following blog posts may included outdated information, but they are still useful for reference if you happen to fall far behind on SDK upgrades.

<Collapsible summary="See a full list of deprecated SDK release changelogs">

- **SDK 49**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-49-c6d398cdf740)
- **SDK 48**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-48-ccb8302e231)
- **SDK 47**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-47-a0f6f5c038af)
- **SDK 46**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-46-c2a1655f63f7)
- **SDK 45**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-45-f4e332954a68)
- **SDK 44**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-44-4c4b8306584a)
- **SDK 43**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-43-aa9b3c7d5541)
- **SDK 42**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-42-579aee2348b6)
- **SDK 41**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-41-12cc5232f2ef)
- **SDK 40**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-40-is-now-available-1in0)
- **SDK 39**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-39-is-now-available-1lm8)
- **SDK 38**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-38-is-now-available-5aa0)
- **SDK 37**: [Release notes](https://dev.to/expo/expo-sdk-37-is-now-available-69g)
- **SDK 36**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-36-is-now-available-b91897b437fe)
- **SDK 35**: [Release notes](https://blog.expo.dev/expo-sdk-35-is-now-available-beee0dfafbf4)

</Collapsible>
