docs/pages/archive/publishing-websites-webpack.mdx, before:

---
title: Publish websites with Webpack
description: Different ways to publish the Expo web app with third-party services with webpack.
---

import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** **Deprecated**: In SDK 50 and above, publishing with `webpack` is deprecated in favor of `metro`. Learn more in [migrating from Webpack to Expo Router](/router/migrate/from-expo-webpack).

A web app created using Expo can be served locally for testing out the production behavior. Once the testing phase checks out, you can choose from a variety of third-party services to host it.

| Bundler   | Expo Router | API Routes | Description                                                                                |
| --------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `webpack` | <NoIcon />  | <NoIcon /> | Outputs a Single Page Application (SPA) with a single **index.html** in the output folder. |

## Create a web build

Creating a web build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you have to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:

Run the webpack export command to compile the project for web:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export:web']} />

The resulting project files are in the **web-build** directory. Any files inside the **web** directory are also copied to the **web-build** directory.

If you make changes to your project, rebuild it for production. Do not edit the **web-build** directory directly.

## Serve locally

Use [Serve CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve) to quickly test locally how your website will be hosted in production. Run the following command to serve the static bundle:

Run the following command to serve the single-page application:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve web-build --single']} />

Open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other things won't work.

## Server a subfolder

If you want to serve your site in a subfolder, add its path to your **package.json** as shown below:

```json package.json
{
  "homepage": "/path/to/subfolder"
}
```

## Hosting on third-party services

### Netlify

[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) is a mostly-unopinionated platform for deploying web apps. This has the highest compatibility with Expo web apps as it makes few assumptions about the framework.

#### Manual deployment with the Netlify CDN

<Step label="1">

Install the Netlify CLI by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g netlify-cli']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Configure redirects for single-page applications.

If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Netlify to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Netlify by creating a **./public/\_redirects** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.

Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with following rule:

```bash web/_redirects
/*    /index.html   200
```

If you modify this file, you must rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Deploy the web build folder by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ netlify deploy --dir web-build']} />

You will see a URL that you can use to view your project online.

</Step>

#### Continuous delivery

Netlify can also build and deploy when you push to git or open a new pull request:

- [Start a new Netlify project](https://app.netlify.com/signup).
- Pick your Git hosting service and select your repository.
- Click **Build your site**.

### Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) has a single-command deployment flow.

<Step label="1">

Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli).

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g vercel@latest']} />

</Step>
<Step label="2">
  Configure redirects for single-page applications. Create a **vercel.json** file at the root of your app and add the following:

```json vercel.json
{
  "buildCommand": "expo export:web",
  "outputDirectory": "web-build",
  "devCommand": "expo",
  "cleanUrls": true,
  "framework": null,
  "rewrites": [
    {
      "source": "/:path*",
      "destination": "/"
    }
  ]
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Deploy the website.

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ vercel']} />

You will now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and see your deployed app.

</Step>

### AWS Amplify Console

The [AWS Amplify Console](https://console.amplify.aws) provides a Git-based workflow for continuously deploying and hosting full-stack serverless web apps. Amplify deploys your PWA from a repository instead of your computer, so you must use a GitHub repository. Before starting, [create a new repo on GitHub](https://github.com/new).

<Step label="1">

Add the [**amplify-explicit.yml**](https://github.com/expo/amplify-demo/blob/master/amplify-explicit.yml) file to the root of your repository. Ensure you have removed the generated **dist** directory from the **.gitignore** file and committed those changes.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Push your local Expo project to a GitHub repository. If you have not pushed to GitHub yet, follow [GitHub's guide to add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github).

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Login to the [Amplify Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/amplify/home) and select an existing app or create a new app. Grant Amplify permission to read from your GitHub account or the organization that owns your repo.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Add your repo, select the branch, and select **Connecting a monorepo?** to enter the path to your app's **dist** directory and choose **Next**.

The Amplify Console will detect the **amplify.yml** file in your project. Select **Allow AWS Amplify to automatically deploy all files hosted in your project root directory** and choose **Next**.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

Review your settings and choose **Save and deploy**. Your app will now be deployed to a `https://branchname.xxxxxx.amplifyapp.com` URL. You can now visit your web app, deploy another branch, or add a unified backend environment across your Expo mobile and web apps.

Follow the steps in the **Learn how to get the most out of Amplify Hosting** drop-down to **Add a custom domain with a free SSL certificate** and more information.

</Step>

### GitHub Pages

[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) allows you to publish a website directly from a GitHub repository.

<Step label="1">

Start by initializing a new git repository in your project. If this is already done, skip this step.

If not then you'll want to run the following command in your project's root directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ git init']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Add the GitHub repository as a `remote` in your local git repository.

<Terminal cmd={['$ git remote add origin https://github.com/username/expo-gh-pages.git']} />

Running the above command makes git know to which repository you want to push your source code. It also makes the `gh-pages` package (installed in the next step) know where you want to deploy your app.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Install the `gh-pages` package as a `dev-dependency` in your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ yarn add -D gh-pages']} />

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Configure your project's **package.json** for web hosting. Start by adding a `homepage` property. Set its value to the string `http://{username on GitHub}.github.io/{repo-name}`.

For example, if a GitHub username is called `dev` and the GitHub repository is `expo-gh-pages`, the following will be the value of the `homepage` property:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
{
  "homepage": "http://dev.github.io/expo-gh-pages"
}
```

In the same file, modify the `scripts` property by adding `predeploy` and `deploy` properties. Each has its own value as shown:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
"scripts": {
 /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  "deploy": "gh-pages -d web-build",
  "predeploy": "expo export:web"
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="5">

To generate a production build of your app, and deploy it to GitHub Pages, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ yarn deploy']} />

Your web app is now available at the URL you set as `homepage` in your **package.json**.

> When you publish code to your repository, for example: `gh-pages`, it will create and push the code to a branch in your repo. This branch will have your build code, however, not your development source code.

</Step>

### Firebase hosting

[Firebase Hosting](https://console.firebase.google.com/) is production-grade web content hosting for web projects.

<Step label="1">

Create a firebase project with the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com) and install the Firebase CLI by following these [instructions](https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting).

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Using the CLI, login to your Firebase account by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ firebase login']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Then, initialize your firebase project to host by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ firebase init']} />

The settings will depend on how you built your Expo website:

When asked about the public path, make sure to specify the **web-build** directory. Also, when prompted **Configure as a single-page app (rewrite all urls to /index.html)**, select **Yes**.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

In the existing `scripts` property of **package.json**, add `predeploy` and `deploy` properties. Each has the following values:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
"scripts": {
  /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  "predeploy": "expo export:web",
  "deploy-hosting": "npm run predeploy && firebase deploy --only hosting",
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="5">

To deploy, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run deploy-hosting']} />

Open the URL from the console output to check your deployment, for example: `https://project-name.firebaseapp.com`.

In case you want to change the header for hosting add the following config for `hosting` section in **firebase.json**:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json firebase.json
  "hosting": [
    {
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
      "headers": [
        {
          "source": "/**",
          "headers": [
            {
              "key": "Cache-Control",
              "value": "no-cache, no-store, must-revalidate"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "source": "**/*.@(jpg|jpeg|gif|png|svg|webp|js|css|eot|otf|ttf|ttc|woff|woff2|font.css)",
          "headers": [
            {
              "key": "Cache-Control",
              "value": "max-age=604800"
            }
          ]
        }
      ],
    }
  ]
```

</Step>

Commit message:

[docs] Fix minor issues (#33883)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

- Following our writing style guide, change folder to directory.
- Fix typos and minor verbiage improvements.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [x] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/archive/publishing-websites-webpack.mdx, after:

---
title: Publish websites with Webpack
description: Different ways to publish the Expo web app with third-party services with webpack.
---

import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** **Deprecated**: In SDK 50 and above, publishing with `webpack` is deprecated in favor of `metro`. Learn more in [migrating from Webpack to Expo Router](/router/migrate/from-expo-webpack).

A web app created using Expo can be served locally for testing out the production behavior. Once the testing phase checks out, you can choose from a variety of third-party services to host it.

| Bundler   | Expo Router | API Routes | Description                                                                                   |
| --------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `webpack` | <NoIcon />  | <NoIcon /> | Outputs a Single Page Application (SPA) with a single **index.html** in the output directory. |

## Create a web build

Creating a web build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you have to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:

Run the webpack export command to compile the project for web:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export:web']} />

The resulting project files are in the **web-build** directory. Any files inside the **web** directory are also copied to the **web-build** directory.

If you make changes to your project, rebuild it for production. Do not edit the **web-build** directory directly.

## Serve locally

Use [Serve CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve) to quickly test locally how your website will be hosted in production. Run the following command to serve the static bundle:

Run the following command to serve the single-page application:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve web-build --single']} />

Open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other things won't work.

## Server a sub-directory

If you want to serve your site in a sub-directory, add its path to your **package.json** as shown below:

```json package.json
{
  "homepage": "/path/to/sub-directory"
}
```

## Hosting on third-party services

### Netlify

[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) is a mostly-unopinionated platform for deploying web apps. This has the highest compatibility with Expo web apps as it makes few assumptions about the framework.

#### Manual deployment with the Netlify CDN

<Step label="1">

Install the Netlify CLI by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g netlify-cli']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Configure redirects for single-page applications.

If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Netlify to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Netlify by creating a **./public/\_redirects** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.

Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with following rule:

```bash web/_redirects
/*    /index.html   200
```

If you modify this file, you must rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Deploy the web build directory by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ netlify deploy --dir web-build']} />

You will see a URL that you can use to view your project online.

</Step>

#### Continuous delivery

Netlify can also build and deploy when you push to git or open a new pull request:

- [Start a new Netlify project](https://app.netlify.com/signup).
- Pick your Git hosting service and select your repository.
- Click **Build your site**.

### Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) has a single-command deployment flow.

<Step label="1">

Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli).

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g vercel@latest']} />

</Step>
<Step label="2">
  Configure redirects for single-page applications. Create a **vercel.json** file at the root of your app and add the following:

```json vercel.json
{
  "buildCommand": "expo export:web",
  "outputDirectory": "web-build",
  "devCommand": "expo",
  "cleanUrls": true,
  "framework": null,
  "rewrites": [
    {
      "source": "/:path*",
      "destination": "/"
    }
  ]
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Deploy the website.

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ vercel']} />

You will now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and see your deployed app.

</Step>

### AWS Amplify Console

The [AWS Amplify Console](https://console.amplify.aws) provides a Git-based workflow for continuously deploying and hosting full-stack serverless web apps. Amplify deploys your PWA from a repository instead of your computer, so you must use a GitHub repository. Before starting, [create a new repo on GitHub](https://github.com/new).

<Step label="1">

Add the [**amplify-explicit.yml**](https://github.com/expo/amplify-demo/blob/master/amplify-explicit.yml) file to the root of your repository. Ensure you have removed the generated **dist** directory from the **.gitignore** file and committed those changes.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Push your local Expo project to a GitHub repository. If you have not pushed to GitHub yet, follow [GitHub's guide to add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github).

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Login to the [Amplify Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/amplify/home) and select an existing app or create a new app. Grant Amplify permission to read from your GitHub account or the organization that owns your repo.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Add your repo, select the branch, and select **Connecting a monorepo?** to enter the path to your app's **dist** directory and choose **Next**.

The Amplify Console will detect the **amplify.yml** file in your project. Select **Allow AWS Amplify to automatically deploy all files hosted in your project root directory** and choose **Next**.

</Step>

<Step label="5">

Review your settings and choose **Save and deploy**. Your app will now be deployed to a `https://branchname.xxxxxx.amplifyapp.com` URL. You can now visit your web app, deploy another branch, or add a unified backend environment across your Expo mobile and web apps.

Follow the steps in the **Learn how to get the most out of Amplify Hosting** drop-down to **Add a custom domain with a free SSL certificate** and more information.

</Step>

### GitHub Pages

[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) allows you to publish a website directly from a GitHub repository.

<Step label="1">

Start by initializing a new git repository in your project. If this is already done, skip this step.

If not then you'll want to run the following command in your project's root directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ git init']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Add the GitHub repository as a `remote` in your local git repository.

<Terminal cmd={['$ git remote add origin https://github.com/username/expo-gh-pages.git']} />

Running the above command makes git know to which repository you want to push your source code. It also makes the `gh-pages` package (installed in the next step) know where you want to deploy your app.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Install the `gh-pages` package as a `dev-dependency` in your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ yarn add -D gh-pages']} />

</Step>

<Step label="4">

Configure your project's **package.json** for web hosting. Start by adding a `homepage` property. Set its value to the string `http://{username on GitHub}.github.io/{repo-name}`.

For example, if a GitHub username is called `dev` and the GitHub repository is `expo-gh-pages`, the following will be the value of the `homepage` property:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
{
  "homepage": "http://dev.github.io/expo-gh-pages"
}
```

In the same file, modify the `scripts` property by adding `predeploy` and `deploy` properties. Each has its own value as shown:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
"scripts": {
 /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  "deploy": "gh-pages -d web-build",
  "predeploy": "expo export:web"
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="5">

To generate a production build of your app, and deploy it to GitHub Pages, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ yarn deploy']} />

Your web app is now available at the URL you set as `homepage` in your **package.json**.

> When you publish code to your repository, for example: `gh-pages`, it will create and push the code to a branch in your repo. This branch will have your build code, however, not your development source code.

</Step>

### Firebase hosting

[Firebase Hosting](https://console.firebase.google.com/) is production-grade web content hosting for web projects.

<Step label="1">

Create a firebase project with the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com) and install the Firebase CLI by following these [instructions](https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting).

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Using the CLI, login to your Firebase account by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ firebase login']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Then, initialize your firebase project to host by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ firebase init']} />

The settings will depend on how you built your Expo website:

When asked about the public path, make sure to specify the **web-build** directory. Also, when prompted **Configure as a single-page app (rewrite all urls to /index.html)**, select **Yes**.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

In the existing `scripts` property of **package.json**, add `predeploy` and `deploy` properties. Each has the following values:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
"scripts": {
  /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  "predeploy": "expo export:web",
  "deploy-hosting": "npm run predeploy && firebase deploy --only hosting",
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="5">

To deploy, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run deploy-hosting']} />

Open the URL from the console output to check your deployment, for example: `https://project-name.firebaseapp.com`.

In case you want to change the header for hosting add the following config for `hosting` section in **firebase.json**:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json firebase.json
  "hosting": [
    {
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
      "headers": [
        {
          "source": "/**",
          "headers": [
            {
              "key": "Cache-Control",
              "value": "no-cache, no-store, must-revalidate"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "source": "**/*.@(jpg|jpeg|gif|png|svg|webp|js|css|eot|otf|ttf|ttc|woff|woff2|font.css)",
          "headers": [
            {
              "key": "Cache-Control",
              "value": "max-age=604800"
            }
          ]
        }
      ],
    }
  ]
```

</Step>
