docs/pages/debugging/create-devtools-plugins.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a dev tools plugin
description: Learn how to create a dev tools plugin to enhance your development experience.
---

import { PaddedAPIBox } from '~/components/plugins/PaddedAPIBox';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** Dev Tools plugins are compatible with SDK 50 and above.

You can create a dev tools plugin, whether that's for inspecting aspects of a common framework or library or something specific to your custom code. This guide will walk you through creating a dev tools plugin.

## What is a dev tools plugin?

A dev tools plugin runs in your web browser in your local development environment and connects to your Expo app.

A plugin consists of three key elements:

- An Expo app to display the dev tools web user interface.
- An **expo-module.config.json** for Expo CLI recognition.
- Calls to `expo/devtools` API for the app to communicate back and forth with the dev tool's web interface.

Plugins can be distributed on npm or included inside your app's monorepo. They typically export a single hook that can be used in your app's root component to initiate two-way communication with the web interface when your app is running in debug mode.

<Step label="1">
## Create a plugin

### Create a new plugin project

`create-dev-plugin` will set up a new plugin project for you. Run the following command to create a new plugin project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-dev-plugin@latest']} />

`create-dev-plugin` will prompt you for the name of your plugin, a description, and the name of the hook that will be used by consumers of your plugin.

The plugin project will contain the following directories:

- **src** - this exports the hook that will be used inside the consuming app to connect it to the plugin.
- **webui** - this contains the web user interface for the plugin.

### Customize a plugin's functionality

The template includes a simple example of sending and receiving messages between the plugin and the app. `useDevToolsPluginClient`, imported from `expo/devtools`, provides functionality for sending and receiving messages between the plugin and the app.

The client object returned by `useDevToolsPluginClient` includes:

<PaddedAPIBox header="addMessageListener">

Listens for a message matching the typed string and invokes the callback with the message data.

```jsx
const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');
client.addMessageListener('ping', data => {
  alert(`Received ping from ${data.from}`);
});
```

</PaddedAPIBox>

<PaddedAPIBox header="sendMessage">

Listens for a message matching the typed string and invokes the callback with the message data.

```jsx
const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');
client?.sendMessage('ping', { from: 'web' });
```

</PaddedAPIBox>

Edit the Expo app inside the **webui** directory to customize the user interface that displays diagnostic information from your app or triggers test scenarios:

```tsx webui/App.tsx
import { useDevToolsPluginClient, type EventSubscription } from 'expo/devtools';
import { useEffect } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');

  useEffect(() => {
    const subscriptions: EventSubscription[] = [];

    subscriptions.push(
      client?.addMessageListener('ping', data => {
        alert(`Received ping from ${data.from}`);
      })
    );

    return () => {
      for (const subscription of subscriptions) {
        subscription?.remove();
      }
    };
  }, [client]);
}
```

Edit the hook in the **src** directory to customize what diagnostic information is sent to the plugin or how the app should respond to any messages from the web user interface:

```tsx src/useMyDevToolsPlugin.ts
import { useDevToolsPluginClient } from 'expo/devtools';

export function useMyDevToolsPlugin() {
  const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');

  const sendPing = () => {
    client?.sendMessage('ping', { from: 'app' });
  };

  return {
    sendPing,
  };
}
```

If you update the hook to return functions that will be called by the app, you will also need to update **src/index.ts** so it exports no-op functions when the app is not running in debug mode:

```diff src/index.ts
if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production') {
  useMyDevToolsPlugin = require('./useMyDevToolsPlugin').useMyDevToolsPlugin;
} else {
  useMyDevToolsPlugin = () => ({
+    sendPing: () => {},
  });
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Test a plugin

Since the plugin web UI is an Expo app, you can test it just like you would any other Expo app, with `npx expo start`, except that you will run it in the browser only. The template includes a convenience command to run the plugin in local development mode:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run web:dev']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Build a plugin for distribution

To prepare your plugin for distribution or use within your monorepo, you will need to build the plugin with the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run build:all']} />

This command will build the hook code into the **build** directory, and the web user interface into the **dist** directory.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Use the plugin

Import the plugin's hook into your app's root component and call it to connect your app to the plugin:

```jsx App.js
import { useMyDevToolsPlugin } from 'my-devtools-plugin';
import { Button } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  const { sendPing } = useMyDevToolsPlugin();

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button
        title="Ping"
        onPress={() => {
          sendPing();
        }}
      />
    </View>
  );
}
```

</Step>

Commit message:

[autolinking] update docs for expo-module.config.json (#34800)
# Why

the `ios` entry in expo-module.config.json is marked as deprecated,
let's reflect that

# How

update docs

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could
reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated
tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or
screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/debugging/create-devtools-plugins.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a dev tools plugin
description: Learn how to create a dev tools plugin to enhance your development experience.
---

import { PaddedAPIBox } from '~/components/plugins/PaddedAPIBox';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> **warning** Dev Tools plugins are compatible with SDK 50 and above.

> **Tip**: Check out the [Expo DevTools Plugins](https://github.com/expo/dev-plugins) for complete examples.

You can create a dev tools plugin, whether that's for inspecting aspects of a common framework or library or something specific to your custom code. This guide will walk you through creating a dev tools plugin.

## What is a dev tools plugin?

A dev tools plugin runs in your web browser in your local development environment and connects to your Expo app.

A plugin consists of three key elements:

- An Expo app to display the dev tools web user interface.
- An **expo-module.config.json** for Expo CLI recognition.
- Calls to `expo/devtools` API for the app to communicate back and forth with the dev tool's web interface.

Plugins can be distributed on npm or included inside your app's monorepo. They typically export a single hook that can be used in your app's root component to initiate two-way communication with the web interface when your app is running in debug mode.

<Step label="1">
## Create a plugin

### Create a new plugin project

`create-dev-plugin` will set up a new plugin project for you. Run the following command to create a new plugin project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-dev-plugin@latest']} />

`create-dev-plugin` will prompt you for the name of your plugin, a description, and the name of the hook that will be used by consumers of your plugin.

The plugin project will contain the following directories:

- **src** - this exports the hook that will be used inside the consuming app to connect it to the plugin.
- **webui** - this contains the web user interface for the plugin.

### Customize a plugin's functionality

The template includes a simple example of sending and receiving messages between the plugin and the app. `useDevToolsPluginClient`, imported from `expo/devtools`, provides functionality for sending and receiving messages between the plugin and the app.

The client object returned by `useDevToolsPluginClient` includes:

<PaddedAPIBox header="addMessageListener">

Listens for a message matching the typed string and invokes the callback with the message data.

```jsx
const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');
client.addMessageListener('ping', data => {
  alert(`Received ping from ${data.from}`);
});
```

</PaddedAPIBox>

<PaddedAPIBox header="sendMessage">

Listens for a message matching the typed string and invokes the callback with the message data.

```jsx
const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');
client?.sendMessage('ping', { from: 'web' });
```

</PaddedAPIBox>

Edit the Expo app inside the **webui** directory to customize the user interface that displays diagnostic information from your app or triggers test scenarios:

```tsx webui/App.tsx
import { useDevToolsPluginClient, type EventSubscription } from 'expo/devtools';
import { useEffect } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');

  useEffect(() => {
    const subscriptions: EventSubscription[] = [];

    subscriptions.push(
      client?.addMessageListener('ping', data => {
        alert(`Received ping from ${data.from}`);
      })
    );

    return () => {
      for (const subscription of subscriptions) {
        subscription?.remove();
      }
    };
  }, [client]);
}
```

Edit the hook in the **src** directory to customize what diagnostic information is sent to the plugin or how the app should respond to any messages from the web user interface:

```tsx src/useMyDevToolsPlugin.ts
import { useDevToolsPluginClient } from 'expo/devtools';

export function useMyDevToolsPlugin() {
  const client = useDevToolsPluginClient('my-devtools-plugin');

  const sendPing = () => {
    client?.sendMessage('ping', { from: 'app' });
  };

  return {
    sendPing,
  };
}
```

If you update the hook to return functions that will be called by the app, you will also need to update **src/index.ts** so it exports no-op functions when the app is not running in debug mode:

```diff src/index.ts
if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production') {
  useMyDevToolsPlugin = require('./useMyDevToolsPlugin').useMyDevToolsPlugin;
} else {
  useMyDevToolsPlugin = () => ({
+    sendPing: () => {},
  });
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Test a plugin

Since the plugin web UI is an Expo app, you can test it just like you would any other Expo app, with `npx expo start`, except that you will run it in the browser only. The template includes a convenience command to run the plugin in local development mode:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run web:dev']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Build a plugin for distribution

To prepare your plugin for distribution or use within your monorepo, you will need to build the plugin with the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm run build:all']} />

This command will build the hook code into the **build** directory, and the web user interface into the **dist** directory.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Use the plugin

Import the plugin's hook into your app's root component and call it to connect your app to the plugin:

```jsx App.js
import { useMyDevToolsPlugin } from 'my-devtools-plugin';
import { Button } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  const { sendPing } = useMyDevToolsPlugin();

  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Button
        title="Ping"
        onPress={() => {
          sendPing();
        }}
      />
    </View>
  );
}
```

</Step>
