docs/pages/debugging/tools.mdx, before:

---
title: Debugging tools
description: Learn about different tools available to debug your Expo project.
sidebar_title: Tools
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

React Native consists of both JavaScript and native code. Making this disctinction is very important when it comes to debugging. If an error is thrown from the JavaScript code, you likely won't be able to find it using debugging tools for native code. This page lists a few tools to help you debug your Expo project.

## Debugging with Chrome DevTools

[inspector-console]: #interacting-with-the-console
[inspector-source]: #pausing-on-breakpoints

Just like websites, you can use the Chrome DevTools to gain insights in the JavaScript code of your app. With this tool, you get access to the [Console][inspector-console], source, and even the network tab when using dev clients.

You can use the Chrome DevTools on any app using Hermes. To open it, start your app and press <kbd>j</kbd> in the terminal where Expo was started. Once you have opened the Chrome DevTools, it will appear as below:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Chrome DevTools, showing one of the files under the source tab."
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-source-tab.png"
/>

### Pausing on breakpoints

You can pause your app on specific parts of your code. To do this, set the breakpoint under the sources tab by clicking on the line number, or add the `debugger` statement in your code.

Once your app is executing code that has a breakpoint, it will fully pause your app. This allows you to inspect all variables and functions in that scope. You can also execute code in the [Console][inspector-console], as if it was part of your app.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Chrome DevTools, showing one of the files under the source tab."
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-breakpoint.png"
/>

> **warning** Breakpoints set through the Chrome DevTools depend heavily on source maps. Unfortunately, these source maps are not always 100% accurate. In some cases, you might have to use a `debugger` statement instead of a breakpoint.

### Pausing on exceptions

If your app is throwing unexpected errors, it can be hard to find the source of the error. You can use the Chrome DevTools to pause your app whenever an error is thrown. This allows you to inspect the stack trace and variables at the moment the error was thrown.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Enable Pause on exceptions in the right panel of the sources tab"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-pause-exception.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

> **info** Some errors might be caught by other components in your app, like Expo Router. In these cases, you can turn on "Pause on caught exceptions". This will enable you to inspect any thrown error, even when it's handled properly.

### Interacting with the console

The Console tab gives you access to an interactive terminal, connected directly to your app. You can write any JavaScript inside this terminal to execute snippets of code as if it was part of your app. The code is executed in the global scope by default. But, when using breakpoints from the [Source][inspector-source] tab, it executes in the scope of the reached breakpoint. This allows you to invoke methods and access variables throughout your app.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Use the console with breakpoints to inspect variables and invoke code throught your app"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-breakpoint-console.png"
/>

### Inspecting network requests

> **warning** This experimental feature is coming to SDK 49+.

The Network tab gives you insights in the network requests made by your app. You can inspect each individual requests and responses by clicking on them. This includes `fetch` requests, external loaded media, and in some cases even requests made by native modules.

This feature is only available when using the dev client, it is not available when using Expo Go.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Gain insights in the network requests from your app"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-network-post.png"
/>

> **info** See the [Inspecting network traffic](#inspecting-network-traffic) for alternative ways to inspect network requests.

## Developer menu

This menu gives you access to several functions which are useful for debugging and is built into the Expo Go or dev client apps. If you are using the emulator, simulator, or have your device connected via USB, you can open this menu by pressing <kbd>m</kbd> in the terminal where Expo was started.

<Collapsible summary="Or use any of the alternative options">

- Android device (without USB): Shake the device verically.
- Android emulator or device (with USB):
  - Press <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>m</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>m</kbd>
  - Run `adb shell input keyevent 82`

- iOS device (without USB):
  - Shake the device.
  - Touch 3 fingers to the screen.
- iOS simulator or device (with USB):
  - Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>z</kbd> or <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>d</kbd>

</Collapsible>

Once you have opened the Developer menu, it will appear as below:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Developer Menu, showing the menu options available."
  src="/static/images/expo-go-developer-menu.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

The Developer menu provides multiple options:

- Reload: reloads your app. Usually not necessary since Fast Refresh is enabled by default
- Copy Link: copy the [`exp://`](/guides/linking/#linking-to-expo-go) link of your app.
- Go Home: leave your app and navigate back to the Expo Go app's Home screen
- Enable/Disable Fast Refresh: toggle automatic refreshing of the JS bundle whenever you make changes to files in your project using a text editor

Now let's explore some of the more exciting functionalities.

### Debug Remote JS

> **warning** Debug remote JS does not support apps using Hermes, see the [Chrome DevTools](#debugging-with-chrome-devtools) section.

Opens a React Native Debugger tab in your browser to allow you to use DevTools. For example, you can use the Console tab to read the `console.log` statements.

It uses [`@react-native-community/cli-debugger-ui`](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/tree/main/packages/cli-debugger-ui):

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Element Inspector, showing details about an element after inspecting it."
  src="/static/images/react-native-community-cli-debugger-ui.png"
/>

> **warning** The Network tab will not work out of the box. To enable the Network tab and other debugging tools, additional setup is required, see the [React Native Debugger](#react-native-debugger) and [React DevTools](#debugging-with-react-devtools) sections below.

### Show Performance Monitor

Opens up a small window giving you performance information about your app. It provides:

- RAM usage of your project
- JavaScript heap (this is an easy way to know of any memory leaks in your application)
- 2 numbers for Views, the top indicates the number of views for the screen, the bottom indicates the number of views in the component
- Frames Per Second for the UI and JS threads. The UI thread is used for native Android or iOS UI rendering. The JS thread is where most of your logic runs, including API calls, touch events, and so on.

### Show/Hide Element Inspector

Opens up the Element Inspector overlay:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Element Inspector, showing details about an element after inspecting it"
  src="/static/images/expo-go-element-inspector.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

This overlay has capabilities to:

1. Inspect: Inspect elements
2. Perf: Show Performance overlay
3. Network: Show network details
4. Touchables: Highlight touchable elements

## React Native Debugger

> **warning** The React Native Debugger does not support apps using Hermes, see the [Chrome DevTools](#debugging-with-chrome-devtools) section.

The React Native Debugger includes many tools listed later on this page, all bundled into one, including [React DevTools](#debugging-with-react-devtools) and network request inspection. For this reason, if you use one tool from this page, it should probably be this one.

We'll give a quick look at it here, but check out their [documentation](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger#documentation) for a more in-depth look.

You can install it via the [release page](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger/releases), or if you're on macOS you can run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install react-native-debugger']} />

### Startup

After firing up React Native Debugger, you'll need to specify the port (shortcuts: <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>t</kbd> on macOS, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>t</kbd> on Linux/Windows) to `19000` (if you use SDK &lt;= 39, the port should be `19001`&gt;). After that, run your project with `npx expo start`, and select `Debug remote JS` from the Developer Menu. The debugger should automatically connect.

In the debugger console, you can see the Element tree, as well as the props, state, and children of whatever element you select. You also have the Chrome console on the right, and if you type `$r` in the console, you will see the breakdown of your selected element.

If you right-click anywhere in the React Native Debugger, you'll get some handy short-cuts to reload your JS, enable/disable the element inspector, network inspector, and to log and clear your `AsyncStorage` content.

<Video file="debugging/react-native-debugger.mp4" />

### Inspecting network traffic

It's easy to use the React Native Debugger to debug your network request: right-click anywhere in the React Native Debugger and select `Enable Network Inspect`. This will enable the Network tab and allow you to inspect requests of `fetch` and `XMLHttpRequest`.

There are however [some limitations](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger/blob/master/docs/network-inspect-of-chrome-devtools.md#limitations), so there are a few other alternatives, all of which require using a proxy:

- [Charles Proxy](https://www.charlesproxy.com/documentation/configuration/browser-and-system-configuration/) (~$50 USD, our preferred tool)
- [Proxyman](https://proxyman.io) (Free version available or $49 to $59 USD)
- [mitmproxy](https://medium.com/@rotxed/how-to-debug-http-s-traffic-on-android-7fbe5d2a34#.hnhanhyoz)
- [Fiddler](http://www.telerik.com/fiddler)

> In bare workflow apps you can use [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com/) to inspect network traffic.

## Debugging with React DevTools

React DevTools is a great way to get a look at each of your components' props and state. First, you'll need to run

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npm install -g react-devtools"
  cmd={[
    '# Install React DevTools with npm',
    '$ npm install -g react-devtools',
    '',
    '# If you are using Expo SDK <= 37: npm install -g react-devtools@^3',
  ]}
/>

(if you don't want to install it globally, run `npm install --dev react-devtools` to install it as a project dependency).

After running `npx expo start` in your project's root directory, use a separate terminal tab to run `react-devtools`. This will open up the React DevTools console (for it to connect, you need to select `Debug remote JS` from the Developer Menu in the Expo Go app). From this console, you can search for your React components at the top, or open up the Developer Menu and enable the Element Inspector. Once you do that, you can tap on any element on screen and React DevTools will automatically find and display that element in the tree. From there, you can inspect the elements state, props, etc.

<Video file="debugging/react-devtools.mp4" />

React DevTools can also be paired with remote debugging, allowing you to inspect props, state, and instance properties in the Chrome console. If you have any questions on setting that up, give the next section a look!

## Debugging production apps with Sentry

In a perfect world, your app would ship without any bugs. However, that's usually not the case. So, it's a good idea to implement a crash and bug reporting system into your app. This way, if any user experiences a fatal JS error (or any event that you've configured to notify Sentry) you can see the details in your Sentry dashboard.

Expo provides a wrapper called [`sentry-expo`](/guides/using-sentry) which allows you to get as much information as possible from crashes and other events. Plus, when running in the managed workflow, you can configure sourcemaps so that the stracktraces you see in Sentry will look much more like the code in your editor.

Commit message:

docs(debugging/tools): rework the React DevTools section

docs/pages/debugging/tools.mdx, after:

---
title: Debugging tools
description: Learn about different tools available to debug your Expo project.
sidebar_title: Tools
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import Video from '~/components/plugins/Video';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

React Native consists of both JavaScript and native code. Making this disctinction is very important when it comes to debugging. If an error is thrown from the JavaScript code, you likely won't be able to find it using debugging tools for native code. This page lists a few tools to help you debug your Expo project.

## Debugging with Chrome DevTools

[inspector-console]: #interacting-with-the-console
[inspector-source]: #pausing-on-breakpoints

Just like websites, you can use the Chrome DevTools to gain insights in the JavaScript code of your app. With this tool, you get access to the [Console][inspector-console], source, and even the network tab when using dev clients.

You can use the Chrome DevTools on any app using Hermes. To open it, start your app and press <kbd>j</kbd> in the terminal where Expo was started. Once you have opened the Chrome DevTools, it will appear as below:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Chrome DevTools, showing one of the files under the source tab."
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-source-tab.png"
/>

### Pausing on breakpoints

You can pause your app on specific parts of your code. To do this, set the breakpoint under the sources tab by clicking on the line number, or add the `debugger` statement in your code.

Once your app is executing code that has a breakpoint, it will fully pause your app. This allows you to inspect all variables and functions in that scope. You can also execute code in the [Console][inspector-console], as if it was part of your app.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Chrome DevTools, showing one of the files under the source tab."
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-breakpoint.png"
/>

> **warning** Breakpoints set through the Chrome DevTools depend heavily on source maps. Unfortunately, these source maps are not always 100% accurate. In some cases, you might have to use a `debugger` statement instead of a breakpoint.

### Pausing on exceptions

If your app is throwing unexpected errors, it can be hard to find the source of the error. You can use the Chrome DevTools to pause your app whenever an error is thrown. This allows you to inspect the stack trace and variables at the moment the error was thrown.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Enable Pause on exceptions in the right panel of the sources tab"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-pause-exception.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

> **info** Some errors might be caught by other components in your app, like Expo Router. In these cases, you can turn on "Pause on caught exceptions". This will enable you to inspect any thrown error, even when it's handled properly.

### Interacting with the console

The Console tab gives you access to an interactive terminal, connected directly to your app. You can write any JavaScript inside this terminal to execute snippets of code as if it was part of your app. The code is executed in the global scope by default. But, when using breakpoints from the [Source][inspector-source] tab, it executes in the scope of the reached breakpoint. This allows you to invoke methods and access variables throughout your app.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Use the console with breakpoints to inspect variables and invoke code throught your app"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-breakpoint-console.png"
/>

### Inspecting network requests

> **warning** This experimental feature is coming to SDK 49+.

The Network tab gives you insights in the network requests made by your app. You can inspect each individual requests and responses by clicking on them. This includes `fetch` requests, external loaded media, and in some cases even requests made by native modules.

This feature is only available when using the dev client, it is not available when using Expo Go.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Gain insights in the network requests from your app"
  src="/static/images/debugging/inspector-network-post.png"
/>

> **info** See the [Inspecting network traffic](#inspecting-network-traffic) for alternative ways to inspect network requests.

## Debugging with React DevTools

React DevTools is a great way to get a look at each of your components' props and state. You can open the React DevTools by pressing <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>m</kbd> in the terminal where Expo was started. Once you have opened the React DevTools, it will appear as below:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Inspect your components using the React DevTools"
  src="/static/images/debugging/react-devtools.png"
/>

React DevTools can also be paired with the [element inspector](#showhide-element-inspector), allowing you to inspect props, state, and instance properties by tapping components inside your app.

## Developer menu

This menu gives you access to several functions which are useful for debugging and is built into the Expo Go or dev client apps. If you are using the emulator, simulator, or have your device connected via USB, you can open this menu by pressing <kbd>m</kbd> in the terminal where Expo was started.

<Collapsible summary="Or use any of the alternative options">

- Android device (without USB): Shake the device verically.
- Android emulator or device (with USB):
  - Press <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>m</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>m</kbd>
  - Run `adb shell input keyevent 82`

- iOS device (without USB):
  - Shake the device.
  - Touch 3 fingers to the screen.
- iOS simulator or device (with USB):
  - Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>z</kbd> or <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>d</kbd>

</Collapsible>

Once you have opened the Developer menu, it will appear as below:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Developer Menu, showing the menu options available."
  src="/static/images/expo-go-developer-menu.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

The Developer menu provides multiple options:

- Reload: reloads your app. Usually not necessary since Fast Refresh is enabled by default
- Copy Link: copy the [`exp://`](/guides/linking/#linking-to-expo-go) link of your app.
- Go Home: leave your app and navigate back to the Expo Go app's Home screen
- Enable/Disable Fast Refresh: toggle automatic refreshing of the JS bundle whenever you make changes to files in your project using a text editor

Now let's explore some of the more exciting functionalities.

### Debug Remote JS

> **warning** Debug remote JS does not support apps using Hermes, see the [Chrome DevTools](#debugging-with-chrome-devtools) section.

Opens a React Native Debugger tab in your browser to allow you to use DevTools. For example, you can use the Console tab to read the `console.log` statements.

It uses [`@react-native-community/cli-debugger-ui`](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/tree/main/packages/cli-debugger-ui):

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Element Inspector, showing details about an element after inspecting it."
  src="/static/images/react-native-community-cli-debugger-ui.png"
/>

> **warning** The Network tab will not work out of the box. To enable the Network tab and other debugging tools, additional setup is required, see the [React Native Debugger](#react-native-debugger) and [React DevTools](#debugging-with-react-devtools) sections below.

### Show Performance Monitor

Opens up a small window giving you performance information about your app. It provides:

- RAM usage of your project
- JavaScript heap (this is an easy way to know of any memory leaks in your application)
- 2 numbers for Views, the top indicates the number of views for the screen, the bottom indicates the number of views in the component
- Frames Per Second for the UI and JS threads. The UI thread is used for native Android or iOS UI rendering. The JS thread is where most of your logic runs, including API calls, touch events, and so on.

### Show/Hide Element Inspector

Opens up the Element Inspector overlay:

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The Expo Go Element Inspector, showing details about an element after inspecting it"
  src="/static/images/expo-go-element-inspector.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 320 }}
/>

This overlay has capabilities to:

1. Inspect: Inspect elements
2. Perf: Show Performance overlay
3. Network: Show network details
4. Touchables: Highlight touchable elements

## React Native Debugger

> **warning** The React Native Debugger does not support apps using Hermes, see the [Chrome DevTools](#debugging-with-chrome-devtools) section.

The React Native Debugger includes many tools listed later on this page, all bundled into one, including [React DevTools](#debugging-with-react-devtools) and network request inspection. For this reason, if you use one tool from this page, it should probably be this one.

We'll give a quick look at it here, but check out their [documentation](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger#documentation) for a more in-depth look.

You can install it via the [release page](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger/releases), or if you're on macOS you can run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install react-native-debugger']} />

### Startup

After firing up React Native Debugger, you'll need to specify the port (shortcuts: <kbd>Cmd ⌘</kbd> + <kbd>t</kbd> on macOS, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>t</kbd> on Linux/Windows) to `19000` (if you use SDK &lt;= 39, the port should be `19001`&gt;). After that, run your project with `npx expo start`, and select `Debug remote JS` from the Developer Menu. The debugger should automatically connect.

In the debugger console, you can see the Element tree, as well as the props, state, and children of whatever element you select. You also have the Chrome console on the right, and if you type `$r` in the console, you will see the breakdown of your selected element.

If you right-click anywhere in the React Native Debugger, you'll get some handy short-cuts to reload your JS, enable/disable the element inspector, network inspector, and to log and clear your `AsyncStorage` content.

<Video file="debugging/react-native-debugger.mp4" />

### Inspecting network traffic

It's easy to use the React Native Debugger to debug your network request: right-click anywhere in the React Native Debugger and select `Enable Network Inspect`. This will enable the Network tab and allow you to inspect requests of `fetch` and `XMLHttpRequest`.

There are however [some limitations](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger/blob/master/docs/network-inspect-of-chrome-devtools.md#limitations), so there are a few other alternatives, all of which require using a proxy:

- [Charles Proxy](https://www.charlesproxy.com/documentation/configuration/browser-and-system-configuration/) (~$50 USD, our preferred tool)
- [Proxyman](https://proxyman.io) (Free version available or $49 to $59 USD)
- [mitmproxy](https://medium.com/@rotxed/how-to-debug-http-s-traffic-on-android-7fbe5d2a34#.hnhanhyoz)
- [Fiddler](http://www.telerik.com/fiddler)

> In bare workflow apps you can use [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com/) to inspect network traffic.

## Debugging production apps with Sentry

In a perfect world, your app would ship without any bugs. However, that's usually not the case. So, it's a good idea to implement a crash and bug reporting system into your app. This way, if any user experiences a fatal JS error (or any event that you've configured to notify Sentry) you can see the details in your Sentry dashboard.

Expo provides a wrapper called [`sentry-expo`](/guides/using-sentry) which allows you to get as much information as possible from crashes and other events. Plus, when running in the managed workflow, you can configure sourcemaps so that the stracktraces you see in Sentry will look much more like the code in your editor.
