docs/pages/bare/installing-expo-modules.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Expo modules in an existing React Native project
sidebar_title: Install Expo modules
description: Learn how to prepare your existing React Native project to install and use any Expo module.
---

import InstallSection from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { YesIcon, NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { DiffBlock } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

To use Expo modules in your app, you will need to install and configure the `expo` package.

The `expo` package has a small footprint; it includes only a minimal set of packages that are needed in nearly every app and the module and autolinking infrastructure that other Expo SDK packages are built with. Once the `expo` package is installed and configured in your project, you can use `npx expo install` to add any other Expo module from the SDK.

Depending on how you [initialized the project](/bare/overview/), there are two ways you can install the Expo modules: [automatically](#automatic-installation) or [manually](#manual-installation).

## Automatic installation

To install and use Expo modules, the easiest way to get up and running is with the `install-expo-modules` command.

<InstallSection
  packageName="expo"
  cmd={[
    '# Install and configure the expo package automatically',
    '$ npx install-expo-modules@latest',
  ]}
  hideBareInstructions
/>

- <YesIcon small /> **When the command succeeds**, you will be able to add any Expo module in your
  app! Proceed to [Usage](#usage) for more information.

- <NoIcon small /> **If the command fails**, please follow the manual installation instructions.
  Updating code programmatically can be tricky, and if your project deviates significantly from a
  default React Native project, then you need to perform manual installation and adapt the
  instructions here to your codebase.

## Manual installation

The following instructions apply to installing the latest version of Expo modules in React Native 0.74.

<InstallSection packageName="expo" cmd={['$ npm install expo']} hideBareInstructions />

Once installation is complete, apply the changes from the following diffs to configure Expo modules in your project. This is expected to take about five minutes, and you may need to adapt it slightly depending on how customized your project is.

### Configuration for Android

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-android.diff" />

### Configuration for iOS

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-ios.diff" />

Optionally, you can also add additional delegate methods to your **AppDelegate.mm**. Some libraries may require them, so unless you have a good reason to leave them out, it is recommended to add them. [See delegate methods in AppDelegate.mm](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L28-L55).

Save all of your changes. In Xcode, update the iOS Deployment Target under `Target → Build Settings → Deployment` to `iOS 13.4`. The last step is to install the project's CocoaPods again to pull in Expo modules that are detected by `use_expo_modules!` directive that we added to the `Podfile`:

<InstallSection
  packageName="expo"
  cmd={[
    '# Install pods',
    '$ npx pod-install',
    '',
    '# Alternatively, the run command will install them for you',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
  hideBareInstructions
/>

### Configure Expo CLI for bundling on Android and iOS

We recommend using Expo CLI to bundle your app JavaScript code and assets. This adds support for using the `"main"` field in **package.json** supports [Expo Router](/router/introduction/). Not using Expo CLI for bundling may result in unexpected behavior. [Learn more about Expo CLI](/bare/using-expo-cli/).

<Collapsible summary="Extend expo/metro-config in your metro.config.js">
  <DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/metro-config.diff" />
</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Configure Android project to bundle with Expo CLI">
  <DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-cli-android.diff" />
</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Configure iOS project to bundle with Expo CLI">

Replace the shell script in the "Bundle React Native code and images" phase under the "Build Phases" tab for your target in Xcode with the following:

```sh
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
fi
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
fi

# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory
export PROJECT_ROOT="$PROJECT_DIR"/..

if [[ "$CONFIGURATION" = *Debug* ]]; then
  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1
fi
if [[ -z "$ENTRY_FILE" ]]; then
  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.
  export ENTRY_FILE="$("$NODE_BINARY" -e "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')" "$PROJECT_ROOT" ios relative | tail -n 1)"
fi

if [[ -z "$CLI_PATH" ]]; then
  # Use Expo CLI
  export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require.resolve('@expo/cli')")"
fi
if [[ -z "$BUNDLE_COMMAND" ]]; then
  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling
  export BUNDLE_COMMAND="export:embed"
fi

`"$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'"`
```

And add support the `"main"` field in **package.json** by making the following change to **AppDelegate.mm**:

```diff
 - (NSURL *)getBundleURL
 {
 #if DEBUG
-  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@"index"];
+  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"];
 #else
   return [[NSBundle mainBundle] URLForResource:@"main" withExtension:@"jsbundle"];
 #endif
```

</Collapsible>

## Usage

### Verifying installation

You can verify that the installation was successful by logging a value from [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants).

- Run `npx expo install expo-constants`
- Then, run `npx expo run` and modify your app JavaScript code to add the following:

```js
import Constants from 'expo-constants';
console.log(Constants.systemFonts);
```

### Using Expo SDK packages

Once the `expo` package is installed and configured in your project, you can use `npx expo install` to add any other Expo module from the SDK. See [Using Libraries](/workflow/using-libraries) for more information.

### Expo modules included in the `expo` package

The following Expo modules are brought in as dependencies of the `expo` package:

- [`expo-application`](/versions/latest/sdk/application) - Generates the installation id in remote logging in development. This module is optional and can be safely removed if you do not use `expo-dev-client`.
- [`expo-asset`](/versions/latest/sdk/asset) - A JavaScript-only package that builds around `expo-file-system` and provides a common foundation for assets across all Expo modules.
- [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants) - Provides access to the manifest.
- [`expo-file-system`](/versions/latest/sdk/filesystem) - Interact with the device file system. Used by `expo-asset` and many other Expo modules. Commonly used directly by developers in application code.
- [`expo-font`](/versions/latest/sdk/font) - Load fonts at runtime. This module is optional and can be safely removed, however; it is recommended if you use `expo-dev-client` for development and it is required by `@expo/vector-icons`.
- [`expo-keep-awake`](/versions/latest/sdk/keep-awake) - Prevents your device from going to sleep while developing your app. This module is optional and can be safely removed.

To exclude any of these modules, refer to the following guide on [excluding modules from autolinking](#excluding-specific-modules-from-autolinking).

### Excluding specific modules from autolinking

If you need to exclude Expo modules you are not using, which were installed by other dependencies, you can use the `expo.autolinking` field in **package.json**:

```json package.json
{
  "name": "...",
  "dependencies": {},
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "exclude": ["expo-keep-awake"]
    }
  }
}
```

You can also exclude a specific platform by using `exclude` under the platform key:

```json package.json
{
  "name": "...",
  "dependencies": {},
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "exclude": ["expo-font"],
      "ios": {
        "exclude": ["expo-keep-awake"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

[docs] Update Manual instructions under install Expo modules in an existing React Native project

docs/pages/bare/installing-expo-modules.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Expo modules in an existing React Native project
sidebar_title: Install Expo modules
description: Learn how to prepare your existing React Native project to install and use any Expo module.
---

import InstallSection from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { YesIcon, NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { DiffBlock } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

To use Expo modules in your app, you will need to install and configure the `expo` package.

The `expo` package has a small footprint; it includes only a minimal set of packages that are needed in nearly every app and the module and autolinking infrastructure that other Expo SDK packages are built with. Once the `expo` package is installed and configured in your project, you can use `npx expo install` to add any other Expo module from the SDK.

Depending on how you [initialized the project](/bare/overview/), there are two ways you can install the Expo modules: [automatically](#automatic-installation) or [manually](#manual-installation).

## Automatic installation

To install and use Expo modules, the easiest way to get up and running is with the `install-expo-modules` command.

<InstallSection
  packageName="expo"
  cmd={[
    '# Install and configure the expo package automatically',
    '$ npx install-expo-modules@latest',
  ]}
  hideBareInstructions
/>

- <YesIcon small /> **When the command succeeds**, you will be able to add any Expo module in your
  app! Proceed to [Usage](#usage) for more information.

- <NoIcon small /> **If the command fails**, please follow the manual installation instructions.
  Updating code programmatically can be tricky, and if your project deviates significantly from a
  default React Native project, then you need to perform manual installation and adapt the
  instructions here to your codebase.

## Manual installation

The following instructions apply to installing the latest version of Expo modules in React Native 0.76.

<InstallSection packageName="expo" cmd={['$ npm install expo']} hideBareInstructions />

Once installation is complete, apply the changes from the following diffs to configure Expo modules in your project. This is expected to take about five minutes, and you may need to adapt it slightly depending on how customized your project is.

### Configuration for Android

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-android.diff" />

### Configuration for iOS

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-ios.diff" />

Optionally, you can also add additional delegate methods to your **AppDelegate.mm**. Some libraries may require them, so unless you have a good reason to leave them out, it is recommended to add them. [See delegate methods in AppDelegate.mm](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L28-L55).

Save all of your changes and update your iOS Deployment Target in Xcode to `iOS 15.1`:

- Open **your-project-name.xcworkspace** in Xcode, select your project in the left sidebar.
- Select **Targets** > **your-project-name** > **Build Settings** > **iOS Deployment Target** and set it to `iOS 15.1`.

The last step is to install the project's CocoaPods again to pull in Expo modules that are detected by `use_expo_modules!` directive that we added to the **Podfile**:

<InstallSection
  packageName="expo"
  cmd={[
    '# Install pods',
    '$ npx pod-install',
    '',
    '# Alternatively, the run command will install them for you',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
  hideBareInstructions
/>

### Configure Expo CLI for bundling on Android and iOS

We recommend using Expo CLI to bundle your app JavaScript code and assets. This adds support for using the `"main"` field in **package.json** supports [Expo Router](/router/introduction/). Not using Expo CLI for bundling may result in unexpected behavior. [Learn more about Expo CLI](/bare/using-expo-cli/).

<Collapsible summary="Extend expo/metro-config in your metro.config.js">
  <DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/metro-config.diff" />
</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Configure Android project to bundle with Expo CLI">
  <DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-cli-android.diff" />
</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Configure iOS project to bundle with Expo CLI">

Replace the shell script under **Build Phases** > **Bundle React Native code and images** in Xcode with the following:

```sh /bin/sh
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
fi
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
fi

# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory
export PROJECT_ROOT="$PROJECT_DIR"/..

if [[ "$CONFIGURATION" = *Debug* ]]; then
  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1
fi
if [[ -z "$ENTRY_FILE" ]]; then
  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.
  export ENTRY_FILE="$("$NODE_BINARY" -e "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')" "$PROJECT_ROOT" ios relative | tail -n 1)"
fi

if [[ -z "$CLI_PATH" ]]; then
  # Use Expo CLI
  export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require.resolve('@expo/cli')")"
fi
if [[ -z "$BUNDLE_COMMAND" ]]; then
  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling
  export BUNDLE_COMMAND="export:embed"
fi

`"$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'"`
```

And add support the `"main"` field in **package.json** by making the following change to **AppDelegate.mm**:

```diff AppDelegate.mm
 - (NSURL *)getBundleURL
 {
 #if DEBUG
-  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@"index"];
+  return [[RCTBundleURLProvider sharedSettings] jsBundleURLForBundleRoot:@".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"];
 #else
   return [[NSBundle mainBundle] URLForResource:@"main" withExtension:@"jsbundle"];
 #endif
```

</Collapsible>

## Usage

### Verifying installation

You can verify that the installation was successful by logging a value from [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants).

- Run `npx expo install expo-constants`
- Then, run `npx expo run` and modify your app JavaScript code to add the following:

```js
import Constants from 'expo-constants';
console.log(Constants.systemFonts);
```

### Using Expo SDK packages

Once the `expo` package is installed and configured in your project, you can use `npx expo install` to add any other Expo module from the SDK. See [Using Libraries](/workflow/using-libraries) for more information.

### Expo modules included in the `expo` package

The following Expo modules are brought in as dependencies of the `expo` package:

- [`expo-application`](/versions/latest/sdk/application) - Generates the installation id in remote logging in development. This module is optional and can be safely removed if you do not use `expo-dev-client`.
- [`expo-asset`](/versions/latest/sdk/asset) - A JavaScript-only package that builds around `expo-file-system` and provides a common foundation for assets across all Expo modules.
- [`expo-constants`](/versions/latest/sdk/constants) - Provides access to the manifest.
- [`expo-file-system`](/versions/latest/sdk/filesystem) - Interact with the device file system. Used by `expo-asset` and many other Expo modules. Commonly used directly by developers in application code.
- [`expo-font`](/versions/latest/sdk/font) - Load fonts at runtime. This module is optional and can be safely removed, however; it is recommended if you use `expo-dev-client` for development and it is required by `@expo/vector-icons`.
- [`expo-keep-awake`](/versions/latest/sdk/keep-awake) - Prevents your device from going to sleep while developing your app. This module is optional and can be safely removed.

To exclude any of these modules, refer to the following guide on [excluding modules from autolinking](#excluding-specific-modules-from-autolinking).

### Excluding specific modules from autolinking

If you need to exclude Expo modules you are not using, which were installed by other dependencies, you can use the `expo.autolinking` field in **package.json**:

```json package.json
{
  "name": "...",
  "dependencies": {},
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "exclude": ["expo-keep-awake"]
    }
  }
}
```

You can also exclude a specific platform by using `exclude` under the platform key:

```json package.json
{
  "name": "...",
  "dependencies": {},
  "expo": {
    "autolinking": {
      "exclude": ["expo-font"],
      "ios": {
        "exclude": ["expo-keep-awake"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```
