docs/pages/bare/installing-updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Add expo-updates to an existing project
description: Learn how to add expo-updates to an existing React Native project.
---

import { DiffBlock, Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

The `expo-updates` library fetches and manages updates received from a remote server. It supports [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction), a hosted service that serves updates for projects using the `expo-updates` library.

> If you are creating a new project, we recommend using `npx create-expo-app --template bare-minimum` (or `yarn create expo-app --template bare-minimum`) instead of `npx react-native init` because it will handle the following configuration for you automatically. It includes the `expo-updates` [config plugin](/guides/config-plugins), which will handle the following steps for you.

## Installation

The `expo-updates` library requires that your project already has [Expo modules configured](/bare/installing-expo-modules). Be sure to install it before continuing.

To get started, install `expo-updates`:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-updates']} />

Then, install pods:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx pod-install']} />

Once installation is complete, apply the changes from the following diffs to configure `expo-updates` in your project.

## Configuration in JavaScript and JSON

Modify the `expo` section of **app.json**. (If you originally created your app using `npx react-native init`, you will need to add this section.)
The changes below add the updates URL and a request header to the Expo configuration.

```diff app.json
 {
   "name": "MyApp",
-  "displayName": "MyApp"
+  "displayName": "MyApp",
+  "expo": {
+    "name": "MyApp",
+    "slug": "MyApp",
+    "ios": {
+      "bundleIdentifier": "com.MyApp"
+    },
+    "android": {
+      "package": "com.MyApp"
+    },
+    "runtimeVersion": "1.0.0",
+    "updates": {
+      "requestHeaders": {
+        "expo-channel-name": "your-channel-name"
+      },
+      "url": "https://exp.host/@my-expo-username/my-app"
+    }
+  }
 }
```

## Configuration for iOS

Modify **ios/Podfile** to check for the JS engine configuration (JSC or Hermes) in Expo files:

```diff ios/Podfile
--- a/ios/Podfile
+++ b/ios/Podfile
@@ -2,6 +2,9 @@ require File.join(File.dirname(`node --print "require.resolve('expo/package.json
 require_relative '../node_modules/react-native/scripts/react_native_pods'
 require_relative '../node_modules/@react-native-community/cli-platform-ios/native_modules'
 
+require 'json'
+podfile_properties = JSON.parse(File.read(File.join(__dir__, 'Podfile.properties.json'))) rescue {}
+
 platform :ios, '13.0'
 prepare_react_native_project!
 
@@ -41,7 +44,7 @@ target 'MyApp' do
     # Hermes is now enabled by default. Disable by setting this flag to false.
     # Upcoming versions of React Native may rely on get_default_flags(), but
     # we make it explicit here to aid in the React Native upgrade process.
-    :hermes_enabled => flags[:hermes_enabled],
+    :hermes_enabled => podfile_properties['expo.jsEngine'] == nil || podfile_properties['expo.jsEngine'] == 'hermes',
     :fabric_enabled => flags[:fabric_enabled],
     # Enables Flipper.
     #

```
Add the **Supporting** directory containing **Expo.plist** to your project in Xcode with the following content:

```xml Expo.plist
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
  <dict>
    <key>EXUpdatesCheckOnLaunch</key>
    <string>ALWAYS</string>
    <key>EXUpdatesEnabled</key>
    <true/>
    <key>EXUpdatesLaunchWaitMs</key>
    <integer>0</integer>
  </dict>
</plist>
```

## Configuration for Android

Modify **android/app/build.gradle** to check for the JS engine configuration (JSC or Hermes) in Expo files:

```diff android/app/build.gradle
--- a/android/app/build.gradle
+++ b/android/app/build.gradle
@@ -52,6 +52,11 @@ react {
     // hermesFlags = ["-O", "-output-source-map"]
 }
 
+// Override `hermesEnabled` by `expo.jsEngine`
+ext {
+  hermesEnabled = (findProperty('expo.jsEngine') ?: "hermes") == "hermes"
+}
+
 /**
  * Set this to true to create four separate APKs instead of one,
  * one for each native architecture. This is useful if you don't
```

## Prebuild

After the steps above are complete, execute `npx expo prebuild` to complete the changes needed for both Android and iOS:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild']} />

After this step, the **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist** files will be configured with the updates URL and request headers that you specified in **app.json**.

## Usage

See more information about usage in the [`expo-updates` README](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-updates/README.md).

## FAQ

<Collapsible summary="How do I customize which assets are included in an update bundle?">

If you have assets (such as images or other media) that are imported in your application code, and you would like these to be downloaded atomically as part of an update, add the `assetBundlePatterns` field under the `expo` key in your project's **app.json**. This field should be an array of file glob strings that point to the assets you want to be bundled. For example: `"assetBundlePatterns": ["**/*"]`

</Collapsible>

Commit message:

Additional configuration steps and doc links, remove outdated section

docs/pages/bare/installing-updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Add expo-updates to an existing project
description: Learn how to add expo-updates to an existing React Native project.
---

import { DiffBlock, Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

The `expo-updates` library fetches and manages updates received from a remote server. It supports [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction), a hosted service that serves updates for projects using the `expo-updates` library.

> If you are creating a new project, we recommend using `npx create-expo-app --template bare-minimum` (or `yarn create expo-app --template bare-minimum`) instead of `npx react-native init` because it will handle the following configuration for you automatically. It includes the `expo-updates` [config plugin](/guides/config-plugins), which will handle the following steps for you.

## Installation

The `expo-updates` library requires that your project already has [Expo modules configured](/bare/installing-expo-modules). Be sure to install it before continuing.

To get started, install `expo-updates`:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-updates']} />

Then, install pods:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx pod-install']} />

Once installation is complete, apply the changes from the following diffs to configure `expo-updates` in your project.

## Configuration in JavaScript and JSON

Modify the `expo` section of **app.json**. (If you originally created your app using `npx react-native init`, you will need to add this section.)
The changes below add the updates URL to the Expo configuration.

> The example URL shown here is for use with a custom update server running on the same machine. When using EAS Update, the EAS CLI will set this URL correctly for the EAS Update service.

```diff app.json
 {
   "name": "MyApp",
-  "displayName": "MyApp"
+  "displayName": "MyApp",
+  "expo": {
+    "name": "MyApp",
+    "slug": "MyApp",
+    "ios": {
+      "bundleIdentifier": "com.MyApp"
+    },
+    "android": {
+      "package": "com.MyApp"
+    },
+    "runtimeVersion": "1.0.0",
+    "updates": {
+      "url": "http://localhost:3000/api/manifest"  
+    }
+  }
 }
```

## Configuration for iOS

Modify **ios/Podfile** to check for the JS engine configuration (JSC or Hermes) in Expo files:

```diff ios/Podfile
--- a/ios/Podfile
+++ b/ios/Podfile
@@ -2,6 +2,9 @@ require File.join(File.dirname(`node --print "require.resolve('expo/package.json
 require_relative '../node_modules/react-native/scripts/react_native_pods'
 require_relative '../node_modules/@react-native-community/cli-platform-ios/native_modules'
 
+require 'json'
+podfile_properties = JSON.parse(File.read(File.join(__dir__, 'Podfile.properties.json'))) rescue {}
+
 platform :ios, '13.0'
 prepare_react_native_project!
 
@@ -41,7 +44,7 @@ target 'MyApp' do
     # Hermes is now enabled by default. Disable by setting this flag to false.
     # Upcoming versions of React Native may rely on get_default_flags(), but
     # we make it explicit here to aid in the React Native upgrade process.
-    :hermes_enabled => flags[:hermes_enabled],
+    :hermes_enabled => podfile_properties['expo.jsEngine'] == nil || podfile_properties['expo.jsEngine'] == 'hermes',
     :fabric_enabled => flags[:fabric_enabled],
     # Enables Flipper.
     #

```
Add the **Supporting** directory containing **Expo.plist** to your project in Xcode with the following content:

```xml Expo.plist
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
  <dict>
    <key>EXUpdatesCheckOnLaunch</key>
    <string>ALWAYS</string>
    <key>EXUpdatesEnabled</key>
    <true/>
    <key>EXUpdatesLaunchWaitMs</key>
    <integer>0</integer>
  </dict>
</plist>
```

## Configuration for Android

Modify **android/app/build.gradle** to check for the JS engine configuration (JSC or Hermes) in Expo files:

```diff android/app/build.gradle
--- a/android/app/build.gradle
+++ b/android/app/build.gradle
@@ -52,6 +52,11 @@ react {
     // hermesFlags = ["-O", "-output-source-map"]
 }
 
+// Override `hermesEnabled` by `expo.jsEngine`
+ext {
+  hermesEnabled = (findProperty('expo.jsEngine') ?: "hermes") == "hermes"
+}
+
 /**
  * Set this to true to create four separate APKs instead of one,
  * one for each native architecture. This is useful if you don't
```

## Prebuild

After the steps above are complete, execute `npx expo prebuild` to complete the changes needed for both Android and iOS:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild']} />

After this step, the **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist** files will be configured with the updates URL and request headers that you specified in **app.json**.

## Additional iOS configuration

If the project was created using `npx react-native init`, then after running `npx expo prebuild`, you must add the new file **SplashScreen.storyboard** to the "Copy Bundle Resources" build phase of the Xcode app build target.

## Next Steps

See more information about usage in the [`expo-updates` README](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-updates/README.md).

See [this guide](/eas-update/eas-update-with-local-build/) for trying out EAS Update with a local build.

To start trying out EAS Update with EAS Build, see the [EAS Update "Getting Started" guide](/eas-update/getting-started/).

It is also possible to use `expo-updates` with a custom server that implements the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1/); see the [`custom-expo-updates-server` README](https://github.com/expo/custom-expo-updates-server#readme).
