docs/pages/bare/updating-your-app.mdx, before:

---
title: Use EAS Update in an existing project
description: Learn how to use EAS Update in an existing React Native project.
---

import { DiffBlock } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

EAS Update works with bare React Native projects created with `react-native init`. These projects have **android** and **ios** directories that you can modify native files directly.

The steps for configuring a bare React Native project are identical to the steps for configuring an Expo project. However, you may need to edit some of the code `eas update:configure` generates depending on how you build and run your project.

## App config

The `eas update:configure` will add two values to your project's app config.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": "1.0.0",
    "updates": {
      "url": "https://u.expo.dev/..."
      ...
    }
    ...
  }
}
```

The `runtimeVersion` property guarantees compatibility between a build's native code and an update. It's necessary to set this value manually whenever you make a change to any native code in your project. Read [our doc on runtime versions](/eas-update/runtime-versions/#custom--runtimeversion) and learn how to [avoid publishing bad updates](/eas-update/runtime-versions/#avoiding-crashes-with-incompatible-updates).

The `updates.url` property is the "https://u.expo.dev" domain followed by your project's ID on EAS' servers. If you go to the URL directly, you'll see an error about missing a header. You can see a manifest by adding three query parameters to the URL: `runtime-version`, `channel-name`, and `platform`. If we published an update with a runtime version of `1.0.0`, a channel of `production`, and a platform of `android`, the full URL you could visit would be similar to this:

```sh
https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id?runtime-version=1.0.0&channel-name=production&platform=android
```

## EAS config and native files

To generate the **eas.json** file, run `eas build:configure`. This command will create the **eas.json** file and it will also modify the **AndroidManifest.xml** file inside the **android** directory and the **Expo.plist** file inside the **ios** directory.

Inside **eas.json**, you'll want to add `channel` properties to each build profile you'd like to send updates to. Assuming you're using the default **eas.json** configuration, we recommend adding `channel` properties to the `preview` and `production` build profiles.

```json eas.json
{
  "cli": {
    "version": ">= 2.1.0"
  },
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    },
    "preview": {
      "distribution": "internal",
      "channel": "preview"
    },
    "production": {
      "channel": "production"
    }
  },
  "submit": {
    "production": {}
  }
}
```

Inside **AndroidManifest.xml**, you'll see the following additions:

```xml
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.EXPO_UPDATE_URL" android:value="https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id"/>
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.EXPO_RUNTIME_VERSION" android:value="@string/expo_runtime_version"/>
```

Inside **android/app/src/main/res/values/strings.xml**, you'll see the `expo_runtime_version` string entry in the `resources` object:

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-update-strings-xml.diff" />

The `EXPO_UPDATE_URL` value should contain your project's ID.

Inside **Expo.plist**, you'll see the following additions:

```xml
<key>EXUpdatesRuntimeVersion</key>
<string>1.0.0</string>
<key>EXUpdatesURL</key>
<string>https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id</string>
```

The `EXUpdatesURL` value should contain your project's ID.

Once you've built your project into a build, the `expo-updates` library will make requests for manifests with the native configuration defined above, along with the channel specified in **eas.json**.

## Configuring the channel manually

If you create a build with EAS Build, the channel name from **eas.json** will automatically be added to our build's **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist** at build time. If you're using EAS Build, the following steps are not necessary.

If your project is not using EAS Build or you are creating release builds with either `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release` or `npx expo run:android --variant release`, you'll need to set the channel configuration manually inside both **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist**.

In **AndroidManifest.xml**, you'll need to add the following, replacing `your-channel-name` with the channel that matches your project:

```xml
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.UPDATES_CONFIGURATION_REQUEST_HEADERS_KEY" android:value="{&quot;expo-channel-name&quot;:&quot;your-channel-name&quot;}"/>
```

In **Expo.plist**, you'll need to add the following, replacing `your-channel-name` with the channel that matches your project:

```xml
<key>EXUpdatesRequestHeaders</key>
<dict>
  <key>expo-channel-name</key>
  <string>your-channel-name</string>
</dict>
```

This configuration is also generated by `npx expo prebuild` if you set the `requestHeaders` property in your **app.json**:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "updates": {
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
      "requestHeaders": {
        "expo-channel-name": "your-channel-name"
      }
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
    }
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  }
}
```

## What's next

Once your project is set up with EAS Update, eventually you'll make native changes to your project. Whenever that happens, you'll need to update the `runtimeVersion` in your project's app config. Once that's done, you'll need to make new builds, after which, you'll be able to send updates with `eas update`.

## Set your own updates service

Some projects have unique requirements that require a self-hosted updates service. Since the expo-updates library is open source and follows the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1), you can set up a [custom server to serve updates to your users](/distribution/custom-updates-server).

Commit message:

[docs] Updates: link high configuration pages with debug

docs/pages/bare/updating-your-app.mdx, after:

---
title: Use EAS Update in an existing project
description: Learn how to use EAS Update in an existing React Native project.
---

import { DiffBlock } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

EAS Update works with bare React Native projects created with `react-native init`. These projects have **android** and **ios** directories that you can modify native files directly.

The steps for configuring a bare React Native project are identical to the steps for configuring an Expo project. However, you may need to edit some of the code `eas update:configure` generates depending on how you build and run your project.

## App config

The `eas update:configure` will add two values to your project's app config.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": "1.0.0",
    "updates": {
      "url": "https://u.expo.dev/..."
      ...
    }
    ...
  }
}
```

The `runtimeVersion` property guarantees compatibility between a build's native code and an update. It's necessary to set this value manually whenever you make a change to any native code in your project. Read [our doc on runtime versions](/eas-update/runtime-versions/#custom--runtimeversion) and learn how to [avoid publishing bad updates](/eas-update/runtime-versions/#avoiding-crashes-with-incompatible-updates).

The `updates.url` property is the "https://u.expo.dev" domain followed by your project's ID on EAS' servers. If you go to the URL directly, you'll see an error about missing a header. You can see a manifest by adding three query parameters to the URL: `runtime-version`, `channel-name`, and `platform`. If we published an update with a runtime version of `1.0.0`, a channel of `production`, and a platform of `android`, the full URL you could visit would be similar to this:

```sh
https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id?runtime-version=1.0.0&channel-name=production&platform=android
```

## EAS config and native files

To generate the **eas.json** file, run `eas build:configure`. This command will create the **eas.json** file and it will also modify the **AndroidManifest.xml** file inside the **android** directory and the **Expo.plist** file inside the **ios** directory.

Inside **eas.json**, you'll want to add `channel` properties to each build profile you'd like to send updates to. Assuming you're using the default **eas.json** configuration, we recommend adding `channel` properties to the `preview` and `production` build profiles.

```json eas.json
{
  "cli": {
    "version": ">= 2.1.0"
  },
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    },
    "preview": {
      "distribution": "internal",
      "channel": "preview"
    },
    "production": {
      "channel": "production"
    }
  },
  "submit": {
    "production": {}
  }
}
```

Inside **AndroidManifest.xml**, you'll see the following additions:

```xml
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.EXPO_UPDATE_URL" android:value="https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id"/>
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.EXPO_RUNTIME_VERSION" android:value="@string/expo_runtime_version"/>
```

Inside **android/app/src/main/res/values/strings.xml**, you'll see the `expo_runtime_version` string entry in the `resources` object:

<DiffBlock source="/static/diffs/expo-update-strings-xml.diff" />

The `EXPO_UPDATE_URL` value should contain your project's ID.

Inside **Expo.plist**, you'll see the following additions:

```xml
<key>EXUpdatesRuntimeVersion</key>
<string>1.0.0</string>
<key>EXUpdatesURL</key>
<string>https://u.expo.dev/your-project-id</string>
```

The `EXUpdatesURL` value should contain your project's ID.

Once you've built your project into a build, the `expo-updates` library will make requests for manifests with the native configuration defined above, along with the channel specified in **eas.json**.

## Configuring the channel manually

If you create a build with EAS Build, the channel name from **eas.json** will automatically be added to our build's **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist** at build time. If you're using EAS Build, the following steps are not necessary.

If your project is not using EAS Build or you are creating release builds with either `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release` or `npx expo run:android --variant release`, you'll need to set the channel configuration manually inside both **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist**.

In **AndroidManifest.xml**, you'll need to add the following, replacing `your-channel-name` with the channel that matches your project:

```xml
<meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.UPDATES_CONFIGURATION_REQUEST_HEADERS_KEY" android:value="{&quot;expo-channel-name&quot;:&quot;your-channel-name&quot;}"/>
```

In **Expo.plist**, you'll need to add the following, replacing `your-channel-name` with the channel that matches your project:

```xml
<key>EXUpdatesRequestHeaders</key>
<dict>
  <key>expo-channel-name</key>
  <string>your-channel-name</string>
</dict>
```

This configuration is also generated by `npx expo prebuild` if you set the `requestHeaders` property in your **app.json**:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "updates": {
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
      "requestHeaders": {
        "expo-channel-name": "your-channel-name"
      }
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
    }
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  }
}
```

## What's next

Once your project is set up with EAS Update, eventually you'll make native changes to your project. Whenever that happens, you'll need to update the `runtimeVersion` in your project's app config. Once that's done, you'll need to make new builds, after which, you'll be able to send updates with `eas update`. If your app is not updating as expected, [validate your configuration](/eas-update/debug).

## Set your own updates service

Some projects have unique requirements that require a self-hosted updates service. Since the expo-updates library is open source and follows the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1), you can set up a [custom server to serve updates to your users](/distribution/custom-updates-server).
