docs/pages/bare/using-expo-cli.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Expo CLI
description: Learn how and why you can use Expo CLI instead of @react-native-community/cli in any React Native project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { DEMI } from '~/ui/components/Text';

To use Expo CLI in a project created with `npx react-native init`, you will first need to install the `expo` package.
This package includes the Expo Modules API and Expo CLI. For a complete explanation of how to install this, see the [Install Expo modules](/bare/installing-expo-modules.mdx) guide.
For most apps, it's as simple as running the following command in your project directory:

<Terminal cmd={['npx install-expo-modules@latest']} />

## Why Expo CLI instead of `npx react-native`

Expo CLI commands provide a number of benefits over the similar commands in `@react-native-community/cli`, including:

- You can open up the Hermes debugger in one keystroke: <kbd>J</kbd>.
- The debugger ships with React Developer Tools (`react-devtools`) already installed.
- Support for [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/prebuild.mdx) (CNG) with `npx expo prebuild` for easy upgrades, white-labeling, simple third-party package setup,
  and improved maintainability of your codebase (by reducing the surface area).
- Support for file-based routing with [`expo-router`](https://expo.github.io/router/docs).
- View native logs directly in the terminal alongside your JavaScript logs.
- Improved native build log formatting by using Expo CLI's own `xcpretty`-style tool that is built specifically for React Native apps.
  For example, when compiling a Pod you can see which Node module included it.
- [Automatic TypeScript support](/guides/typescript.mdx).
- [Automatic web support](/guides/customizing-metro.mdx#adding-web-support-to-metro) with Metro.
- Out of the box [support for monorepos](/guides/monorepos.mdx).
- Support for Expo tooling such as [expo-dev-client](/develop/development-builds/introduction.mdx), the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1.mdx)
  and [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction.mdx).
- `npx expo run:ios` will invoke `pod install` automatically when needed.
- `npx expo install` picks known compatible versions of dependencies for well-known packages.
- `npx expo run:[android|ios]` and `npx expo start` automatically detect if an app is running on the default port and suggests another.
- Select an Android or iOS device to launch into using <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>A</kbd> from the interactive prompt.
- Built-in support for serving your app over an [ngrok tunnel](/develop/development-builds/development-workflows.mdx#tunnel-urls),
  which is useful for testing on physical devices on restricted networks.

We recommend Expo CLI for most React Native projects that target Android, iOS, and/or web. It does not yet have built-in support for the most popular out-of-tree platforms,
macOS and Windows — if you are building for those platforms, you can use Expo CLI for the supported platforms and `@react-native-community/cli` for the others.

## Compiling and running your app

Once you have the `expo` package installed, you can use the `npx expo run:android` and `npx expo run:ios` commands as alternatives to `npx react-native run-android`
and `npx react-native run-ios`. You can pass in the `--device` flag to select a device/simulator to build for — this also works for any connected iOS device.

## Starting the bundler

`npx expo run:[android|ios]` will start the bundler/development server. You can skip that by passing in `--no-bundler` flag.
Start the development server independently with `npx expo start --dev-client`.

## Common questions

<Collapsible summary="Can I use Expo CLI without installing the Expo Modules API?">

When you install the `expo` package with `npx install-expo-modules`, you will also install the Expo Modules API. If you just want to try out Expo CLI for now,
you can install the `expo` package with `npm install` and then configure your **react-native.config.js** to exclude the package from autolinking:

```js
module.exports = {
  dependencies: {
    expo: {
      platforms: {
        android: null,
        ios: null,
        macos: null,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

> **Note**: Not all features will work without the Expo Modules API installed. For example, you will not be able to use the `expo-dev-client` package or `expo-router`.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Can I use prebuild for out-of-tree platforms, such as macOS or Windows?">

Yes! Refer to the [Customized Prebuild Example repository](https://github.com/byCedric/custom-prebuild-example) for more information.

</Collapsible>

## Learn more

With the `expo` package installed and configured in your project, you can start using all features from Expo CLI and SDK.

<BoxLink
  title="Expo CLI Reference"
  description="Learn more about the commands and flags available in Expo CLI."
  href="/more/expo-cli"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Adopting Prebuild"
  description={
    <>
      Automate your native directories using the <DEMI>app.json</DEMI>.
    </>
  }
  href="/guides/adopting-prebuild"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Using the Expo SDK"
  description="Try out modules from the Expo SDK in your app"
  href="/versions/"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Try Expo Router"
  description="Expo Router brings the best routing concepts from the web to native Android and iOS apps."
  href="https://expo.github.io/router/docs/"
/>

Commit message:

[docs] Update instances of `--dev-client` for SDK 48 and lower

docs/pages/bare/using-expo-cli.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Expo CLI
description: Learn how and why you can use Expo CLI instead of @react-native-community/cli in any React Native project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { DEMI } from '~/ui/components/Text';

To use Expo CLI in a project created with `npx react-native init`, you will first need to install the `expo` package.
This package includes the Expo Modules API and Expo CLI. For a complete explanation of how to install this, see the [Install Expo modules](/bare/installing-expo-modules.mdx) guide.
For most apps, it's as simple as running the following command in your project directory:

<Terminal cmd={['npx install-expo-modules@latest']} />

## Why Expo CLI instead of `npx react-native`

Expo CLI commands provide a number of benefits over the similar commands in `@react-native-community/cli`, including:

- You can open up the Hermes debugger in one keystroke: <kbd>J</kbd>.
- The debugger ships with React Developer Tools (`react-devtools`) already installed.
- Support for [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/prebuild.mdx) (CNG) with `npx expo prebuild` for easy upgrades, white-labeling, simple third-party package setup,
  and improved maintainability of your codebase (by reducing the surface area).
- Support for file-based routing with [`expo-router`](https://expo.github.io/router/docs).
- View native logs directly in the terminal alongside your JavaScript logs.
- Improved native build log formatting by using Expo CLI's own `xcpretty`-style tool that is built specifically for React Native apps.
  For example, when compiling a Pod you can see which Node module included it.
- [Automatic TypeScript support](/guides/typescript.mdx).
- [Automatic web support](/guides/customizing-metro.mdx#adding-web-support-to-metro) with Metro.
- Out of the box [support for monorepos](/guides/monorepos.mdx).
- Support for Expo tooling such as [expo-dev-client](/develop/development-builds/introduction.mdx), the [Expo Updates protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1.mdx)
  and [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction.mdx).
- `npx expo run:ios` will invoke `pod install` automatically when needed.
- `npx expo install` picks known compatible versions of dependencies for well-known packages.
- `npx expo run:[android|ios]` and `npx expo start` automatically detect if an app is running on the default port and suggests another.
- Select an Android or iOS device to launch into using <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>A</kbd> from the interactive prompt.
- Built-in support for serving your app over an [ngrok tunnel](/develop/development-builds/development-workflows.mdx#tunnel-urls),
  which is useful for testing on physical devices on restricted networks.

We recommend Expo CLI for most React Native projects that target Android, iOS, and/or web. It does not yet have built-in support for the most popular out-of-tree platforms,
macOS and Windows — if you are building for those platforms, you can use Expo CLI for the supported platforms and `@react-native-community/cli` for the others.

## Compiling and running your app

Once you have the `expo` package installed, you can use the `npx expo run:android` and `npx expo run:ios` commands as alternatives to `npx react-native run-android`
and `npx react-native run-ios`. You can pass in the `--device` flag to select a device/simulator to build for — this also works for any connected iOS device.

## Starting the bundler

`npx expo run:[android|ios]` will start the bundler/development server. You can skip that by passing in `--no-bundler` flag.
Start the development server independently with `npx expo start` command. For SDK 48 and lower, use the `--dev-client` flag with the command.

## Common questions

<Collapsible summary="Can I use Expo CLI without installing the Expo Modules API?">

When you install the `expo` package with `npx install-expo-modules`, you will also install the Expo Modules API. If you just want to try out Expo CLI for now,
you can install the `expo` package with `npm install` and then configure your **react-native.config.js** to exclude the package from autolinking:

```js
module.exports = {
  dependencies: {
    expo: {
      platforms: {
        android: null,
        ios: null,
        macos: null,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

> **Note**: Not all features will work without the Expo Modules API installed. For example, you will not be able to use the `expo-dev-client` package or `expo-router`.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Can I use prebuild for out-of-tree platforms, such as macOS or Windows?">

Yes! Refer to the [Customized Prebuild Example repository](https://github.com/byCedric/custom-prebuild-example) for more information.

</Collapsible>

## Learn more

With the `expo` package installed and configured in your project, you can start using all features from Expo CLI and SDK.

<BoxLink
  title="Expo CLI Reference"
  description="Learn more about the commands and flags available in Expo CLI."
  href="/more/expo-cli"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Adopting Prebuild"
  description={
    <>
      Automate your native directories using the <DEMI>app.json</DEMI>.
    </>
  }
  href="/guides/adopting-prebuild"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Using the Expo SDK"
  description="Try out modules from the Expo SDK in your app"
  href="/versions/"
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Try Expo Router"
  description="Expo Router brings the best routing concepts from the web to native Android and iOS apps."
  href="https://expo.github.io/router/docs/"
/>
