docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/cellular.mdx, before:

---
title: Cellular
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-cellular'
packageName: 'expo-cellular'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-cellular`** provides information about the user’s cellular service provider, such as its unique identifier, cellular connection type, and whether it allows VoIP calls on its network.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as Cellular from 'expo-cellular';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-cellular" apiName="Cellular" />

## Error Codes

| Code                                         | Description                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ERR_CELLULAR_GENERATION_UNKNOWN_NETWORK_TYPE | Unable to access network type or not connected to a cellular network |

Commit message:

Add description for Camera, CaptureRef, Cellular, Checkbox

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/cellular.mdx, after:

---
title: Cellular
description: An API that provides information about the user's cellular service provider.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-cellular'
packageName: 'expo-cellular'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

**`expo-cellular`** provides information about the user’s cellular service provider, such as its unique identifier, cellular connection type, and whether it allows VoIP calls on its network.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as Cellular from 'expo-cellular';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-cellular" apiName="Cellular" />

## Error Codes

| Code                                         | Description                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ERR_CELLULAR_GENERATION_UNKNOWN_NETWORK_TYPE | Unable to access network type or not connected to a cellular network |
