docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/devicemotion.mdx, before:

---
title: DeviceMotion
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`DeviceMotion` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device motion and orientation sensors. All data is presented in terms of three axes that run through a device. According to portrait orientation: X runs from left to right, Y from bottom to top and Z perpendicularly through the screen from back to front.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import { DeviceMotion } from 'expo-sensors';
```

## Methods

### `DeviceMotion.isAvailableAsync()`

> You should always check the sensor availability before attempting to use it.

Returns whether the `DeviceMotion` API is enabled on the device.

On mobile web, you need to request permissions for a sensor in response to a user interaction (i.e. touch event) before you can use this module. For example, [`Accelerometer.requestPermissionsAsync()`](/versions/latest/sdk/accelerometer.mdx#accelerometerisavailableasync) If the `status` is not equal to `granted` then you should inform the end user that they may have to open settings.

On **web** this starts a timer and waits to see if an event is fired. This should predict if the iOS device has the **device orientation** API disabled in `Settings > Safari > Motion & Orientation Access`. Some devices will also not fire if the site isn't hosted with **HTTPS** as `DeviceMotion` is now considered a secure API. There is no formal API for detecting the status of `DeviceMotion` so this API can sometimes be unreliable on web.

#### Returns

- A promise that resolves to a `boolean` denoting the availability of the sensor.

### `DeviceMotion.addListener(listener)`

Subscribe for updates to DeviceMotion.

#### Arguments

- **listener (_function_)** -- A callback that is invoked when a
  DeviceMotion update is available. When invoked, the listener is
  provided a single argument that is an object containing following fields:

  - **interval (_number_)** -- Interval at which data is obtained from the native platform. Expressed in **milliseconds**.

  - **acceleration (_object_)** -- Device acceleration on the three axis as an object with x, y, z keys. Expressed in m/s<sup>2</sup>.

  - **accelerationIncludingGravity (_object_)** -- Device acceleration with the effect of gravity on the three axis as an object with x, y, z keys. Expressed in m/s<sup>2</sup>.

  - **rotation (_object_)** -- Device's orientation in space as an object with alpha, beta, gamma keys where alpha is for rotation around Z axis, beta for X axis rotation and gamma for Y axis rotation.

  - **rotationRate (_object_)** -- Device's rate of rotation in space expressed in degrees per second (deg/s).

    - **alpha (_number_)**: X axis rotation.
    - **beta (_number_)**: Y axis rotation.
    - **gamma (_number_)**: Z axis rotation.

  - **orientation (_number_)** -- Device orientation based on screen rotation. Value is on of `0` (portrait), `90` (right landscape), `180` (upside down), `-90` (left landscape).

#### Returns

- A subscription that you can call `remove()` on when you
  would like to unsubscribe the listener.

### `DeviceMotion.removeAllListeners()`

Remove all listeners.

### `DeviceMotion.setUpdateInterval(intervalMs)`

Subscribe for updates to DeviceMotion.

#### Arguments

- **intervalMs (_number_)** Desired interval in milliseconds between
  DeviceMotion updates.

Commit message:

Add description for Crypto, DateTimePicker, DeviceMotion, Document Picker, Face Detector

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/devicemotion.mdx, after:

---
title: DeviceMotion
description: A library that provides access to a device's motion and orientation sensors.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-sensors'
packageName: 'expo-sensors'
iconUrl: '/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`DeviceMotion` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device motion and orientation sensors. All data is presented in terms of three axes that run through a device. According to portrait orientation: X runs from left to right, Y from bottom to top and Z perpendicularly through the screen from back to front.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import { DeviceMotion } from 'expo-sensors';
```

## Methods

### `DeviceMotion.isAvailableAsync()`

> You should always check the sensor availability before attempting to use it.

Returns whether the `DeviceMotion` API is enabled on the device.

On mobile web, you need to request permissions for a sensor in response to a user interaction (i.e. touch event) before you can use this module. For example, [`Accelerometer.requestPermissionsAsync()`](/versions/latest/sdk/accelerometer.mdx#accelerometerisavailableasync) If the `status` is not equal to `granted` then you should inform the end user that they may have to open settings.

On **web** this starts a timer and waits to see if an event is fired. This should predict if the iOS device has the **device orientation** API disabled in `Settings > Safari > Motion & Orientation Access`. Some devices will also not fire if the site isn't hosted with **HTTPS** as `DeviceMotion` is now considered a secure API. There is no formal API for detecting the status of `DeviceMotion` so this API can sometimes be unreliable on web.

#### Returns

- A promise that resolves to a `boolean` denoting the availability of the sensor.

### `DeviceMotion.addListener(listener)`

Subscribe for updates to DeviceMotion.

#### Arguments

- **listener (_function_)** -- A callback that is invoked when a
  DeviceMotion update is available. When invoked, the listener is
  provided a single argument that is an object containing following fields:

  - **interval (_number_)** -- Interval at which data is obtained from the native platform. Expressed in **milliseconds**.

  - **acceleration (_object_)** -- Device acceleration on the three axis as an object with x, y, z keys. Expressed in m/s<sup>2</sup>.

  - **accelerationIncludingGravity (_object_)** -- Device acceleration with the effect of gravity on the three axis as an object with x, y, z keys. Expressed in m/s<sup>2</sup>.

  - **rotation (_object_)** -- Device's orientation in space as an object with alpha, beta, gamma keys where alpha is for rotation around Z axis, beta for X axis rotation and gamma for Y axis rotation.

  - **rotationRate (_object_)** -- Device's rate of rotation in space expressed in degrees per second (deg/s).

    - **alpha (_number_)**: X axis rotation.
    - **beta (_number_)**: Y axis rotation.
    - **gamma (_number_)**: Z axis rotation.

  - **orientation (_number_)** -- Device orientation based on screen rotation. Value is on of `0` (portrait), `90` (right landscape), `180` (upside down), `-90` (left landscape).

#### Returns

- A subscription that you can call `remove()` on when you
  would like to unsubscribe the listener.

### `DeviceMotion.removeAllListeners()`

Remove all listeners.

### `DeviceMotion.setUpdateInterval(intervalMs)`

Subscribe for updates to DeviceMotion.

#### Arguments

- **intervalMs (_number_)** Desired interval in milliseconds between
  DeviceMotion updates.
