docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/firebase-core.mdx, before:

---
title: FirebaseCore
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-firebase-core'
packageName: 'expo-firebase-core'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`expo-firebase-core` provides access to the Firebase configuration and performs initialization of the native Firebase App.

> **warning** You do not have to install this library directly in your project to use [Firebase](/guides/using-firebase). It is used as a peer dependency for the `expo-firebase-analytics` module when used with [React Native Firebase](/versions/latest/sdk/firebase-analytics/#with-native-firebase-sdk).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as FirebaseCore from 'expo-firebase-core';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-firebase-core" apiName="FirebaseCore" />

Commit message:

Add description for removed and deprecated Firebase libraries

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/firebase-core.mdx, after:

---
title: FirebaseCore
description: A library that provides access to the Firebase configuration and performs initialization of the native Firebase App.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-firebase-core'
packageName: 'expo-firebase-core'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

`expo-firebase-core` provides access to the Firebase configuration and performs initialization of the native Firebase App.

> **warning** You do not have to install this library directly in your project to use [Firebase](/guides/using-firebase). It is used as a peer dependency for the `expo-firebase-analytics` module when used with [React Native Firebase](/versions/latest/sdk/firebase-analytics/#with-native-firebase-sdk).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## API

```js
import * as FirebaseCore from 'expo-firebase-core';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-firebase-core" apiName="FirebaseCore" />
