docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/safe-area-context.mdx, before:

---
title: SafeAreaContext
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context'
packageName: 'react-native-safe-area-context'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

**`react-native-safe-area-context`** provides a flexible API for accessing device safe area inset information. This allows you to position your content appropriately around notches, status bars, home indicators, and other such device and operating system interface elements. It also provides a `SafeAreaView` component that you can use in place of `View` to automatically inset your views to account for safe areas.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context#getting-started" />

## API

```js
import {
  SafeAreaView,
  SafeAreaProvider,
  SafeAreaInsetsContext,
  useSafeAreaInsets,
  initialWindowMetrics,
} from 'react-native-safe-area-context';
```

`SafeAreaView` is a regular `View` component with the safe area edges applied as padding.

If you set your own padding on the view, it will be added to the padding from the safe area.

**If you are targeting web, you must set up `SafeAreaProvider` as described in the hooks section**. You do not need to for native platforms.

```js
import { SafeAreaView } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function SomeComponent() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaView>
      <View />
    </SafeAreaView>
  );
}
```

### Props

All props are optional.

#### `emulateUnlessSupported`

`true` (default) or `false`

On iOS 10, emulate the safe area using the status bar height and home indicator sizes.

#### `edges`

Array of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`. Defaults to all.

Sets the edges to apply the safe area insets to.

## Hooks

Hooks give you direct access to the safe area insets. This is a more advanced use-case, and might perform worse than `SafeAreaView` when rotating the device.

First, add `SafeAreaProvider` in your app root component. You may need to add it in other places too, including at the root of any modals any any routes when using `react-native-screen`.

```js
import { SafeAreaProvider } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  return <SafeAreaProvider>...</SafeAreaProvider>;
}
```

You use the `useSafeAreaInsets` hook to get the insets in the form of `{ top: number, right: number, bottom: number: number, left: number }`.

```js
import { useSafeAreaInsets } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function HookComponent() {
  const insets = useSafeAreaInsets();

  return <View style={{ paddingTop: insets.top }} />;
}
```

Usage with consumer api:

```js
import { SafeAreaInsetsContext } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

class ClassComponent extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <SafeAreaInsetsContext.Consumer>
        {insets => <View style={{ paddingTop: insets.top }} />}
      </SafeAreaInsetsContext.Consumer>
    );
  }
}
```

## Optimization

If you can, use `SafeAreaView`. It's implemented natively so when rotating the device, there is no delay from the asynchronous bridge.

To speed up the initial render, you can import `initialWindowMetrics` from this package and set as the `initialMetrics` prop on the provider as described in Web SSR. You cannot do this if your provider remounts, or you are using `react-native-navigation`.

```js
import { SafeAreaProvider, initialWindowMetrics } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  return <SafeAreaProvider initialMetrics={initialWindowMetrics}>...</SafeAreaProvider>;
}
```

## Web SSR

If you are doing server side rendering on the web, you can use `initialSafeAreaInsets` to inject values based on the device the user has, or simply pass zero. Otherwise, insets measurement will break rendering your page content since it is async.

## Migrating from CSS

#### Before

In a web-only app, you would use CSS environment variables to get the size of the screen's safe area insets.

**styles.css**

```css
div {
  padding-top: env(safe-area-inset-top);
  padding-left: env(safe-area-inset-left);
  padding-bottom: env(safe-area-inset-bottom);
  padding-right: env(safe-area-inset-right);
}
```

#### After

Universally, the hook `useSafeAreaInsets()` can provide access to this information.

**App.js**

```jsx
import { useSafeAreaInsets } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  const insets = useSafeAreaInsets();

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        paddingTop: insets.top,
        paddingLeft: insets.left,
        paddingBottom: insets.bottom,
        paddingRight: insets.right,
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Add description for Picker, Print, Random, Reanimated, rootRegisterComponent, SafeAreaContext, Screen Captuer

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/safe-area-context.mdx, after:

---
title: SafeAreaContext
description: A library with a flexible API for accessing the device's safe area inset information.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context'
packageName: 'react-native-safe-area-context'
---

import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

> **info** This library is listed in the Expo SDK reference because it is included in [Expo Go](/get-started/expo-go/). You may use any library of your choice with [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/).

**`react-native-safe-area-context`** provides a flexible API for accessing device safe area inset information. This allows you to position your content appropriately around notches, status bars, home indicators, and other such device and operating system interface elements. It also provides a `SafeAreaView` component that you can use in place of `View` to automatically inset your views to account for safe areas.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context#getting-started" />

## API

```js
import {
  SafeAreaView,
  SafeAreaProvider,
  SafeAreaInsetsContext,
  useSafeAreaInsets,
  initialWindowMetrics,
} from 'react-native-safe-area-context';
```

`SafeAreaView` is a regular `View` component with the safe area edges applied as padding.

If you set your own padding on the view, it will be added to the padding from the safe area.

**If you are targeting web, you must set up `SafeAreaProvider` as described in the hooks section**. You do not need to for native platforms.

```js
import { SafeAreaView } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function SomeComponent() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaView>
      <View />
    </SafeAreaView>
  );
}
```

### Props

All props are optional.

#### `emulateUnlessSupported`

`true` (default) or `false`

On iOS 10, emulate the safe area using the status bar height and home indicator sizes.

#### `edges`

Array of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`. Defaults to all.

Sets the edges to apply the safe area insets to.

## Hooks

Hooks give you direct access to the safe area insets. This is a more advanced use-case, and might perform worse than `SafeAreaView` when rotating the device.

First, add `SafeAreaProvider` in your app root component. You may need to add it in other places too, including at the root of any modals any any routes when using `react-native-screen`.

```js
import { SafeAreaProvider } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  return <SafeAreaProvider>...</SafeAreaProvider>;
}
```

You use the `useSafeAreaInsets` hook to get the insets in the form of `{ top: number, right: number, bottom: number: number, left: number }`.

```js
import { useSafeAreaInsets } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function HookComponent() {
  const insets = useSafeAreaInsets();

  return <View style={{ paddingTop: insets.top }} />;
}
```

Usage with consumer api:

```js
import { SafeAreaInsetsContext } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

class ClassComponent extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <SafeAreaInsetsContext.Consumer>
        {insets => <View style={{ paddingTop: insets.top }} />}
      </SafeAreaInsetsContext.Consumer>
    );
  }
}
```

## Optimization

If you can, use `SafeAreaView`. It's implemented natively so when rotating the device, there is no delay from the asynchronous bridge.

To speed up the initial render, you can import `initialWindowMetrics` from this package and set as the `initialMetrics` prop on the provider as described in Web SSR. You cannot do this if your provider remounts, or you are using `react-native-navigation`.

```js
import { SafeAreaProvider, initialWindowMetrics } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  return <SafeAreaProvider initialMetrics={initialWindowMetrics}>...</SafeAreaProvider>;
}
```

## Web SSR

If you are doing server side rendering on the web, you can use `initialSafeAreaInsets` to inject values based on the device the user has, or simply pass zero. Otherwise, insets measurement will break rendering your page content since it is async.

## Migrating from CSS

#### Before

In a web-only app, you would use CSS environment variables to get the size of the screen's safe area insets.

**styles.css**

```css
div {
  padding-top: env(safe-area-inset-top);
  padding-left: env(safe-area-inset-left);
  padding-bottom: env(safe-area-inset-bottom);
  padding-right: env(safe-area-inset-right);
}
```

#### After

Universally, the hook `useSafeAreaInsets()` can provide access to this information.

**App.js**

```jsx
import { useSafeAreaInsets } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function App() {
  const insets = useSafeAreaInsets();

  return (
    <View
      style={{
        paddingTop: insets.top,
        paddingLeft: insets.left,
        paddingBottom: insets.bottom,
        paddingRight: insets.right,
      }}
    />
  );
}
```
