docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/splash-screen.mdx, before:

---
title: SplashScreen
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-splash-screen'
packageName: 'expo-splash-screen'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The `SplashScreen` module from the `expo-splash-screen` library is used to tell the splash screen to remain visible until it has been explicitly told to hide. This is useful to do tasks that will happen behind the scenes such as making API calls, pre-loading fonts, animating the splash screen and so on.

Also, see the guide on [creating a splash screen image](/develop/user-interface/splash-screen/), or [quickly generate an icon and splash screen using your browser](https://buildicon.netlify.app/).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

This example shows how to keep the splash screen visible while loading app resources and then hide the splash screen when the app has rendered some initial content.

```js
import React, { useCallback, useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';
import Entypo from '@expo/vector-icons/Entypo';
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
import * as Font from 'expo-font';

// Keep the splash screen visible while we fetch resources
SplashScreen.preventAutoHideAsync();

export default function App() {
  const [appIsReady, setAppIsReady] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function prepare() {
      try {
        // Pre-load fonts, make any API calls you need to do here
        await Font.loadAsync(Entypo.font);
        // Artificially delay for two seconds to simulate a slow loading
        // experience. Please remove this if you copy and paste the code!
        await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000));
      } catch (e) {
        console.warn(e);
      } finally {
        // Tell the application to render
        setAppIsReady(true);
      }
    }

    prepare();
  }, []);

  const onLayoutRootView = useCallback(async () => {
    if (appIsReady) {
      // This tells the splash screen to hide immediately! If we call this after
      // `setAppIsReady`, then we may see a blank screen while the app is
      // loading its initial state and rendering its first pixels. So instead,
      // we hide the splash screen once we know the root view has already
      // performed layout.
      await SplashScreen.hideAsync();
    }
  }, [appIsReady]);

  if (!appIsReady) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}
      onLayout={onLayoutRootView}>
      <Text>SplashScreen Demo! 👋</Text>
      <Entypo name="rocket" size={30} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

### Animating the splash screen

See the [with-splash-screen](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-splash-screen) example on how to apply any arbitrary animations to your splash screen, such as a fade out. You can initialize a new project from this example by running `npx create-react-native-app -t with-splash-screen`.

## API

```js
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-splash-screen" apiName="SplashScreen" />

Commit message:

Add description for Speech, Splash Screen, StatusBar, Store Review, System UI, Stripe, TaskManager

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/splash-screen.mdx, after:

---
title: SplashScreen
description: A library that provides access to controlling the visibility behavior of native splash screen.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-splash-screen'
packageName: 'expo-splash-screen'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The `SplashScreen` module from the `expo-splash-screen` library is used to tell the splash screen to remain visible until it has been explicitly told to hide. This is useful to do tasks that will happen behind the scenes such as making API calls, pre-loading fonts, animating the splash screen and so on.

Also, see the guide on [creating a splash screen image](/develop/user-interface/splash-screen/), or [quickly generate an icon and splash screen using your browser](https://buildicon.netlify.app/).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

## Usage

This example shows how to keep the splash screen visible while loading app resources and then hide the splash screen when the app has rendered some initial content.

```js
import React, { useCallback, useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';
import Entypo from '@expo/vector-icons/Entypo';
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
import * as Font from 'expo-font';

// Keep the splash screen visible while we fetch resources
SplashScreen.preventAutoHideAsync();

export default function App() {
  const [appIsReady, setAppIsReady] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    async function prepare() {
      try {
        // Pre-load fonts, make any API calls you need to do here
        await Font.loadAsync(Entypo.font);
        // Artificially delay for two seconds to simulate a slow loading
        // experience. Please remove this if you copy and paste the code!
        await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000));
      } catch (e) {
        console.warn(e);
      } finally {
        // Tell the application to render
        setAppIsReady(true);
      }
    }

    prepare();
  }, []);

  const onLayoutRootView = useCallback(async () => {
    if (appIsReady) {
      // This tells the splash screen to hide immediately! If we call this after
      // `setAppIsReady`, then we may see a blank screen while the app is
      // loading its initial state and rendering its first pixels. So instead,
      // we hide the splash screen once we know the root view has already
      // performed layout.
      await SplashScreen.hideAsync();
    }
  }, [appIsReady]);

  if (!appIsReady) {
    return null;
  }

  return (
    <View
      style={{ flex: 1, alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center' }}
      onLayout={onLayoutRootView}>
      <Text>SplashScreen Demo! 👋</Text>
      <Entypo name="rocket" size={30} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

### Animating the splash screen

See the [with-splash-screen](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-splash-screen) example on how to apply any arbitrary animations to your splash screen, such as a fade out. You can initialize a new project from this example by running `npx create-react-native-app -t with-splash-screen`.

## API

```js
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-splash-screen" apiName="SplashScreen" />
