docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Updates
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-updates'
packageName: 'expo-updates'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The `expo-updates` library allows you to programmatically control and respond to new updates made available to your app.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="/bare/installing-updates/" />

## Usage

Most of the methods and constants in this module can only be used or tested in release mode; they do not make sense in debug builds where you always load the latest JavaScript from your computer while in development.

**To test manual updates in the Expo Go app**, run [`eas update`](/eas-update/introduction) and then open the published version of your app with Expo Go.

**To test manual updates with managed workflow standalone apps**, you can create a [**.apk**](/build-reference/apk) or a [simulator build](/build-reference/simulators) or , or make a release build locally with `expo run:android --variant release` and `expo run:ios --configuration Release`.

**To test manual updates in bare workflow apps**, make a release build with `expo run:android --variant release` or `expo run:ios --configuration Release` (you don't need to submit this build to the store to test).

### Check for updates manually

The `expo-updates` library exports a variety of functions to interact with updates once the app is already running. In some scenarios, you may want to check if updates are available or not. This can be done manually by using [`checkForUpdateAsync()`](#updatescheckforupdateasync) as shown in the example below:

```jsx App.js
import { View, Button } from 'react-native';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

function App() {
  async function onFetchUpdateAsync() {
    try {
      const update = await Updates.checkForUpdateAsync();

      if (update.isAvailable) {
        await Updates.fetchUpdateAsync();
        await Updates.reloadAsync();
      }
    } catch (error) {
      // You can also add an alert() to see the error message in case of an error when fetching updates.
      alert(`Error fetching latest Expo update: ${error}`);
    }
  }

  return (
    <View>
      <Button title="Fetch update" onPress={onFetchUpdateAsync} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

## API

```js
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-updates" apiName="Updates" />

## Error Codes

| Code                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ERR_UPDATES_DISABLED` | A method call was attempted when the Updates module was disabled, or the application was running in development mode                                                                                                                                          |
| `ERR_UPDATES_RELOAD`   | An error occurred when trying to reload the application and it could not be reloaded. For bare workflow apps, double check the setup steps for this module to ensure it has been installed correctly and the proper native initialization methods are called. |
| `ERR_UPDATES_CHECK`    | An unexpected error occurred when trying to check for new updates. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                              |
| `ERR_UPDATES_FETCH`    | An unexpected error occurred when trying to fetch a new update. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                                 |

Commit message:

Add description for Tracking Transparency, Updates, Video Thumbnails, Video, View Pager, WebBrowser, WebView

docs/pages/versions/v46.0.0/sdk/updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Updates
description: A library that allows programmatically controlling and responding to new updates made available to your app.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-updates'
packageName: 'expo-updates'
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The `expo-updates` library allows you to programmatically control and respond to new updates made available to your app.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator />

## Installation

<APIInstallSection href="/bare/installing-updates/" />

## Usage

Most of the methods and constants in this module can only be used or tested in release mode; they do not make sense in debug builds where you always load the latest JavaScript from your computer while in development.

**To test manual updates in the Expo Go app**, run [`eas update`](/eas-update/introduction) and then open the published version of your app with Expo Go.

**To test manual updates with managed workflow standalone apps**, you can create a [**.apk**](/build-reference/apk) or a [simulator build](/build-reference/simulators) or , or make a release build locally with `expo run:android --variant release` and `expo run:ios --configuration Release`.

**To test manual updates in bare workflow apps**, make a release build with `expo run:android --variant release` or `expo run:ios --configuration Release` (you don't need to submit this build to the store to test).

### Check for updates manually

The `expo-updates` library exports a variety of functions to interact with updates once the app is already running. In some scenarios, you may want to check if updates are available or not. This can be done manually by using [`checkForUpdateAsync()`](#updatescheckforupdateasync) as shown in the example below:

```jsx App.js
import { View, Button } from 'react-native';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

function App() {
  async function onFetchUpdateAsync() {
    try {
      const update = await Updates.checkForUpdateAsync();

      if (update.isAvailable) {
        await Updates.fetchUpdateAsync();
        await Updates.reloadAsync();
      }
    } catch (error) {
      // You can also add an alert() to see the error message in case of an error when fetching updates.
      alert(`Error fetching latest Expo update: ${error}`);
    }
  }

  return (
    <View>
      <Button title="Fetch update" onPress={onFetchUpdateAsync} />
    </View>
  );
}
```

## API

```js
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';
```

<APISection packageName="expo-updates" apiName="Updates" />

## Error Codes

| Code                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ERR_UPDATES_DISABLED` | A method call was attempted when the Updates module was disabled, or the application was running in development mode                                                                                                                                          |
| `ERR_UPDATES_RELOAD`   | An error occurred when trying to reload the application and it could not be reloaded. For bare workflow apps, double check the setup steps for this module to ensure it has been installed correctly and the proper native initialization methods are called. |
| `ERR_UPDATES_CHECK`    | An unexpected error occurred when trying to check for new updates. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                              |
| `ERR_UPDATES_FETCH`    | An unexpected error occurred when trying to fetch a new update. Check the error message for more information.                                                                                                                                                 |
