docs/pages/push-notifications/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Push notifications: Overview'
sidebar_title: Overview
description: An overview of Expo's push notification service.
---

import { Bell03Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/Bell03Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

Expo makes implementing push notifications easy. All the hassle with device information and communicating with Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) or Apple Push Notification Service (APNs) is done behind the scenes. This allows you to treat Android and iOS notifications in the same way and save time both on the front-end and back-end.

<BoxLink
  title="Setup push notifications, get a push token and credentials"
  description="Learn how to set up push notifications, get credentials for development and production, and test sending push notifications with a minimal working example."
  href="/push-notifications/push-notifications-setup"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Send a push notification"
  description="Learn how to call Expo's Push API with the token when you want to send a notification."
  href="/push-notifications/sending-notifications"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Receive a push notification"
  description="Learn how to respond to a notification received by your app and take action based on the event."
  href="/push-notifications/receiving-notifications"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Frequently asked questions (FAQs)"
  description="A collection of common questions about Expo's push notification service."
  href="/push-notifications/faq"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

Commit message:

[docs][notifications] guides overhaul (#33063)
# Why

Much of the docs was written in 2020 and deserves an overhaul.

closes #31886

# How

read most of the docs and refactored it

# Test Plan

<!--
Please describe how you tested this change and how a reviewer could reproduce your test, especially if this PR does not include automated tests! If possible, please also provide terminal output and/or screenshots demonstrating your test/reproduction.
-->

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff. This is required for changes to Expo modules.
-->

- [ ] Documentation is up to date to reflect these changes (eg: https://docs.expo.dev and README.md).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build (eg: updated a module plugin).

docs/pages/push-notifications/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Push notifications: Overview'
sidebar_title: Overview
description: An overview of Expo push notification service.
---

import { Bell03Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/Bell03Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { NotificationsVideo } from '~/ui/components/NotificationsVideo';

Expo simplifies implementing push notifications by handling much of the complexity involved in communicating with Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) or Apple Push Notification Service (APNs). This allows you to treat Android and iOS notifications in the same way and save time both on the front-end and back-end.

Follow the video or links below to learn how to set up push notifications, send them, and handle incoming notifications in your app.

<NotificationsVideo />

<BoxLink
  title="What you need to know about notifications"
  description="Different kinds of notifications and notification behaviors you need to know before you get started."
  href="/push-notifications/what-you-need-to-know"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Set up push notifications, get a push token and credentials"
  description="All you need to do to get started quickly."
  href="/push-notifications/push-notifications-setup"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Send push notifications"
  description="See how to call Expo Push Service API to send push notifications from your server."
  href="/push-notifications/sending-notifications"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Handle incoming notifications"
  description="Learn how to respond to a notification received by your app and take an action based on the event."
  href="/push-notifications/receiving-notifications"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Troubleshooting and Frequently asked questions (FAQ)"
  description="A collection of common questions about Expo's push notification service."
  href="/push-notifications/faq"
  Icon={Bell03Icon}
/>
