docs/pages/eas/hosting/workflows.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_title: Workflows
title: Deploy with Workflows
description: Learn how to automate EAS Hosting deployments with Workflows.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

EAS Workflows is a great way to automate the web deployment of your project to EAS Hosting with pull request (PR) previews and production deployments.

## Setup workflows

To use [EAS workflows](/eas-workflows/get-started/) to automatically deploy your project, follow the instructions in [Get started with EAS workflows](/eas-workflows/get-started/) and add the [GitHub integration](/eas-workflows/get-started/#configure-your-project) for your project.

## Create a deployment workflow

Add the following file to **.eas/workflows/deploy.yml**. This will use the production environment variables, export the web bundle, deploy your project and promote it to production whenever you push to the `main` branch.

```yml
name: Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches: ['main']

jobs:
  deploy:
    type: deploy
    name: Deploy
    environment: production
    params:
      prod: true
```

Now, whenever a commit is pushed to `main` or a PR is merged, the workflow will run to deploy your website.

You can also test this workflow by triggering it manually:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/deploy.yml']} />

Commit message:

[docs] SEO updates to EAS Workflows and EAS Hosting (#34672)
# Why

<!--
Please describe the motivation for this PR, and link to relevant GitHub
issues, forums posts, or feature requests.
-->

Based on a discussion with @dankelly2040 to add "React Native CI/CD" as
a keyword.

# Checklist

<!--
Please check the appropriate items below if they apply to your diff.
-->

- [ ] I added a `changelog.md` entry and rebuilt the package sources
according to [this short
guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-before-submitting)
- [ ] This diff will work correctly for `npx expo prebuild` & EAS Build
(eg: updated a module plugin).
- [ ] Conforms with the [Documentation Writing Style
Guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md)

docs/pages/eas/hosting/workflows.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_title: Workflows
title: Deploy with Workflows
description: Learn how to automate React Native CI/CD for web deployments with EAS Hosting and Workflows.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

EAS Workflows is a great way to automate the React Native CI/CD pipeline for web deployment of your project to EAS Hosting with pull request (PR) previews and production deployments.

## Setup workflows

To use [EAS workflows](/eas-workflows/get-started/) to automatically deploy your project, follow the instructions in [Get started with EAS workflows](/eas-workflows/get-started/) and add the [GitHub integration](/eas-workflows/get-started/#configure-your-project) for your project.

## Create a deployment workflow

Add the following file to **.eas/workflows/deploy.yml**. This will use the production environment variables, export the web bundle, deploy your project and promote it to production whenever you push to the `main` branch.

```yml
name: Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches: ['main']

jobs:
  deploy:
    type: deploy
    name: Deploy
    environment: production
    params:
      prod: true
```

Now, whenever a commit is pushed to `main` or a PR is merged, the workflow will run to deploy your website.

You can also test this workflow by triggering it manually:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/deploy.yml']} />
